BorrowItNow
BorrowItNow Skip to content | Skip to navigation Texas A&M University Texas A&M University Libraries Site Navigation Search Services University Libraries Services About Course Reserves Checkout a Book Request Forms Study Rooms Renew Materials Laptops Media Request an Article or Book (Get it for me) Tours, Classes, Orientations More » Help University Libraries Help AskUs Call Us Help Yourself How do I? (FAQs) Citing Your Sources Need Larger Text? Report Problems Off Campus Access Subject Guides Class Guides Subject Specialists More » About About University Libraries Hours, Phone, Directions General Information Collections Map & GIS Library Government Documents Special Collections More » Employee Directory Evans Library & Annex Cushing Library West Campus Library Medical Sciences Library Policy Sciences and Economics Library Digital Library Qatar Campus Library Galveston Campus Library More » Chat/Questions University Libraries ? Services ? BorrowItNow Personal tools My Library Record Giving to the Libraries Services Borrowing Books Borrowing Laptops/Netbooks BorrowItNow ? Catalogs Copying and Scanning Course Reserves Get it for me Lockers Map & GIS Library Media & Reserves OAL Computers and Printing University Records Management Research Support Study Rooms Textbooks Tours, Classes and Orientations Typewriter Help About BorrowItNow BorrowItNow allows you to search collections directly from 30 major research libraries affiliated with the Greater Western Library Alliance (GWLA). When you quickly need printed books not owned or currently unavailable from the Texas A&M University Libraries, search BorrowItNow. You will get books faster than usual interlibrary loan or recall. Who is eligible for the BorrowItNow service? We offer this service to faculty, staff, and currently registered graduate and undergraduate students of the Texas A&M University College Station campus and to distant education students whose home libraries are the Evans, PSEL, and West Campus Libraries. How do I register? You have access to the BorrowItNow service with your Get it for me account. If you do not have a Get it for me account, please register. Once you have an account, you can start using this added feature of the Get it for me service. What can be borrowed? You may request print books that are not owned by the Texas A&M University Libraries or currently unavailable from the Libraries — either checked out, missing, or lost. What type of notification will I receive when the item is available? When your requested item is ready to be picked up, you will receive an email notification. How long can I keep the item? Books from BorrowItNow will be checked out to you for 12 weeks. How do I renew items? Log in to your Get it for me account. Under the View section, click Checked Out Items and click on the transaction number of the request you want to renew. At the top, left corner of the form, click Renew Request in red. Please renew the item before the due date. A two-week renewal will be automatically granted until we hear otherwise from the lending library. If a renewal is denied by the lending library, we will notify you via email and let you know the new due date of the loan. Where can I return BorrowItNow Items? You may return the books to any of the library services desks at Evans, WCL and PSEL. Please do not use the book drops located throughout campus for BorrowItNow items. Are there any overdue fines? Late return of materials can jeopardize the Texas A&M University libraries' opportunity to borrow from other libraries in the future. Lending libraries may assess overdue, lost, and damage fines. You will be financially responsible for any late fees, replacement costs of lost material, and cost of damages levied by the lending library. Participating institutions Arizona State University Baylor University Brigham Young University Colorado State University Iowa State University Kansas State University Oklahoma State University Oregon State University Southern Illinois University Southern Methodist University Texas A&M University Texas Tech University University of Arizona University of Arkansas University of Colorado at Boulder University of Hawai'i at M?noa University of Houston University of Illinois at Chicago University of Kansas University of Missouri University of Nevada, Las Vegas University of New Mexico University of Oklahoma University of Oregon University of Southern California University of Texas at Austin University of Utah University of Wyoming Washington University in St. Louis Library news, events and feeds News & Events University Libraries to host Edible Book Festival 2015 April 1 Texas A&M University Selected as Host for Exhibition of Shakespeare’s First Folio Texas A&M University Libraries Introduces Quick Search Follow us Giving to the Libraries Texas A&M University Employment Webmaster Legal Comments 979-845-5741 Site Map Accessibility
