Campus Coalition Builders (CCB) | Division of Student Affairs | Oregon State University
Campus Coalition Builders (CCB) | Division of Student Affairs | Oregon State University  OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Division of Student Affairs Home About Student Affairs Organizational Chart Leadership Team Archive Departments & Offices Committees Contact Us Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home About Student Affairs Organizational Chart Leadership Team Archive Departments & Offices Committees Contact Us Home Campus Coalition Builders (CCB) Building community through diversity, leadership, & service. Our Story Team Origins The OSU Campus Coalition Builders (CCB) group was formed in 1999 in response to the Division of Student Affairs Campus Compact Diversity Initiative. Team members include students, staff and faculty from a variety of backgrounds and workstations within the Division and throughout the campus community. We are committed to work together to make a positive difference in the community, and to eliminate the negative effects of oppression for all people. By listening to every voice, seeking to understand others, and engaging in transformational learning and teaching, we will build strong relationships and lasting alliances with those with whom we work and live. “Creating Communities where everyone wants to belong“ Group activities and community engagement are informed by the core principles of the National Coalition Building Institute (NCBI). Foundational beliefs such as every issue counts, hearing stories changes attitudes, and skill training generates empowerment, are the core principles that support us as we seek to build community through diversity, leadership and service.  NCBI Key Principles * 1. Guilt is the glue that holds prejudice in place. 2. Welcoming diversity means every person counts and every issue counts. 3. Treating everyone the same may be unintentionally oppressive. 4. Meetings go better when everyone is included. 5. Recognize and work with the diversity already present in what appear to be homogeneous groups. 6. People can take on tough issues more readily when the issues are presented in a spirit of hope. 7. Building a team around us is the most powerful way to bring about institutional change. * Leading Diverse Communities: A How-To Guide for Moving from Healing into Action publication by the National Coalition Building Institute; authors Cherie R. Brown and George J. Mazza.   Read on . . .   Student Affairs at OSU Assessment Campus Coalition Builders Contact Us Event Calendar Event/Workshop Descripts Kudos, Comments, & Reflections 2014 Division Annual Report NASPA Undergraduate Fellows Program (NUFP) Professional Development Division Priorities It's On Us Campaign Contact Info The Division of Student Affairs Copyright ©2015 Oregon State University Disclaimer Vice Provost Office Communications & Marketing Research, Evaluation, & Planning Vice Provost Office Community Dean of Student Life Disability Access Services New Student Programs & Family Outreach Student Conduct & Community Standards Career Services Diversity Intercultural Student Services Leadership Memorial Union Student Media Student Leadership & Involvement Health & Wellness Counseling & Psychological Services Recreational Sports Student Health Services University Housing & Dining Services Housing Dining
