Changing a Major: MIT Office of the Registrar
Changing a Major: MIT Office of the Registrar Skip to Content Home  |  Contact Us  |  WebSIS  |  Search: Academic Calendar Academic Calendar Religious Holidays Projected Key Dates Registration Subjects Subject Listing & Schedule Add/Drop Exams Grades Course Catalog Transfer Credit Faculty Curriculum Committees Rules for Conducting Classes Transcripts & Certifications Transcripts Degree Certifications Enrollment Certifications Loan Deferment Letters Subject Registration Letters Dean's Certifications Apostille Certifications Graduation & Diplomas Dates and Deadlines Graduation Checklist Undergraduate Requirements Graduate Requirements Commencement Degree Certifications Replacement Diplomas Classrooms Subject Listing & Schedule Reservations General Rules Classroom Inventory Renovation & Planning Exams Forms & Petitions Pre-registration Registration Instructions Cross-registration Full-time Registration Add/drop Address Maintenance Majors and Minors Changing a Major Declaring a Minor Transfer Credit Grades Student Status Tuition and Fees Home » Registration » Majors and Minors Changing the Undergraduate Major To make one of the following changes submit a Change of Major Form. Print the form, fill out the student section, and then meet with the Undergraduate Academic Administrator in the new Course. Changing a single major. Changing a double major to a single major (the single major can be one of the Courses in the double major or a new Course). Changing a Course in a previously-approved double major to a Course in the same department (for example, 7 to 7A). Switching the primary and secondary Courses in a previously-approved double major. If the Change of Major Form is received before the end of the eighth week of the fall or spring term, or during the summer, the change of major takes effect immediately. End of the eighth week is three weeks after Add Date. If the form is received after the eighth week the change takes effect for the next term. A change within the same department (for example, 2 to 2A) takes effect immediately. To do one of the following you must submit an application to the Commitee on Curricula (CoC). Change from a single major to a double major. Change one of the Courses in a previously-approved double major to a Course in another department. Massachusetts Institute of Technology 77 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 Rooms 5-111 and 5-119 Hours: Mon-Fri, 9 am-5 pm registrar-www@mit.edu Office of the Dean for Undergraduate Education
