Clip Boston Magazine Q&A: Turing Award-Winner Michael Stonebraker | MIT News
Clip Boston Magazine Q&A: Turing Award-Winner Michael Stonebraker  | MIT News Massachusetts Institute of Technology News Video Social Follow MIT MIT News RSS Follow MIT on Twitter Follow MIT on Facebook Follow MIT on Google+ Follow MIT on Instagram Follow MIT on Flickr Follow MIT on YouTube MIT News Office Browse or Browse Most Popular “IDEAS” for social change Brian Forde joins the MIT Media Lab as director of digital currency Patents forecast technological change Renewing a community space: Kresge restoration underway James Hansen: We should look at all energy options Timothy F. Jamison appointed next head of the Department of Chemistry MIT Music recording released on major jazz label Thumbnail track pad By Topic Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) How three MIT students fooled the world of scientific journals Graphics in reverse Building community for EECS postdocs Michael Stonebraker wins $1 million Turing Award Computer vision Graphics in reverse Vision system for household robots Five CSAIL researchers named ACM fellows Can you out-race a computer? Electrical Engineering & Computer Science (eecs) Five from MIT win Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans How three MIT students fooled the world of scientific journals Better sensors for medical imaging, contraband detection Alfred P. Sloan Foundation awards grant to create a University Center of Exemplary Mentoring at MIT Imaging Hu selected for 2015 Holonyak, Jr. Award Five CSAIL researchers named ACM fellows Two sensors in one Extracting audio from visual information Research New tabletop detector “sees” single electrons Thumbnail track pad Study links brain anatomy, academic achievement, and family income Patents forecast technological change See All Topics By School School of Architecture + Planning Thumbnail track pad Brian Forde joins the MIT Media Lab as director of digital currency Letter regarding MIT's Kendall Square and east campus design process At TED 2015, MIT visionaries reframe the future School of Engineering Five from MIT win Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans 3 Questions: Amanda Giang on controlling mercury pollution in India and China James Hansen: We should look at all energy options Patents forecast technological change School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences MIT Music recording released on major jazz label Learning by teaching in a different culture Passage from India Letter regarding the new Institute for Data, Systems, and Society Sloan School of Management Five from MIT win Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Letter regarding the new Institute for Data, Systems, and Society Deans announce new Institute for Data, Systems, and Society Captioning at scale School of Science New tabletop detector “sees” single electrons BCS Professor Nancy Kanwisher wins outstanding postdoc mentor award Study links brain anatomy, academic achievement, and family income Timothy F. Jamison appointed next head of the Department of Chemistry By Department Urban Studies and Planning Winning women MIT CoLab launches partnership with Banco Palmas Lessons from the MIT Water Club Preemptive design saving cities Biological Engineering New evidence for how a rare form of liver cancer arises Alfred P. Sloan Foundation awards grant to create a University Center of Exemplary Mentoring at MIT New materials to protect the brain Mechanically stimulating stem cells Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences An ocean of opportunity Jochem Marotzke to speak on what the warming “hiatus” means for climate change At TED 2015, MIT visionaries reframe the future Communicating climate change: Focus on solutions Materials Science and Engineering The magic of glass and metal Fostering U.S.-Russia energy innovation Using sound waves to detect rare cancer cells New materials to protect the brain Writing and Humanistic Studies Knight Science Journalism Program director Philip Hilts to step down 3 Questions with Seth Mnookin Symposium marks 50th anniversary of ‘The Machine in the Garden’ Wi-Phi website presents 'philosophy's greatest hits' See All Departments By Center, Lab, & Program Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) How three MIT students fooled the world of scientific journals Graphics in reverse Captioning at scale Reviewing online homework at scale Biomimetics Robotics Lab Bound for robotic glory Research Laboratory of Electronics Better sensors for medical imaging, contraband detection Diagnosis by keyboard Building community for EECS postdocs Hu selected for 2015 Holonyak, Jr. Award Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) How three MIT students fooled the world of scientific journals Graphics in reverse Captioning at scale Reviewing online homework at scale Technology and Policy Program Dava Newman nominated for NASA post Alumna takes up space on Saturday mornings Shrink-wrapping spacesuits Graduate student Sami Khan receives research award See All Centers, Labs, & Programs Login or Subscribe Newsletter Media Coverage April 16, 2015 Lauren Beavin of Boston Magazine speaks with A.M. Turing Award recipient Michael Stonebraker about why Boston is such a great place for computer scientists. The Boston tech scene "is way above critical mass, and the quality of life here is very, very high,” Stonebraker explains.  Go to News Coverage Related News Michael Stonebraker wins $1 million Turing Award CSAIL researcher invented core database concepts, turned many into companies. Other Coverage Boston Globe reporter Hiawatha Bray writes about how Prof. Amos Winter and graduate student Natasha Wright are testing their solar-powered desalination system in a competition aimed at finding cheaper and more efficient ways to provide clean water to the developing world. “It’s a two-billion-person problem,” says Winter. “That’s a pretty motivating problem.” Graduate student Lina Colucci speaks with Elisabeth Pain of Science about combining her passion for dance with her work as an engineer. Colucci explains that she is using her knowledge of “biomechanics to change the materials and structural design” of ballet shoes.  MIT researchers have developed a thumbnail-mounted sensor that can be used as a wireless track pad, reports Marie Szaniszlo for the Boston Herald. The device, “puts Bluetooth and a battery into a package that you can stick to your fingernail and can send data wirelessly to your phone,” Szaniszlo explains.  MIT has launched the Online Education Policy Initiative to investigate and make recommendations about the future of online learning, Inside Higher Education reports. The initiative “will over the next nine months release reports, host workshops and lecture series, and eventually make recommendations about online learning.” The Economist highlights “Strategy Rules,” a new book co-authored by Prof. Michael Cusumano that draws lessons from the careers of three tech executives. “The book provides plenty of insight to help navigate a world that is ever more driven by IT.” A team of MIT researchers has found that the brain’s cortical thickness differs between low-income and high-income teenagers, reports Lyndsey Layton for The Washington Post. “The thing that really stands out is how powerful the economic influences are on something as fundamental as brain structure,” said Prof. John Gabrieli.  About This Website This Website is maintained by the MIT News Office. About the MIT News Office MIT News Press Center Press Inquries Filming Guidelines Contact Us Terms of Use RSS Twitter Facebook Google+ Instagram Flickr YouTube MIT Homepage MIT Video MIT Connect MIT Resources Events Calendar About MIT Admissions Alumni Education Labs and Centers Resources Submit Campus News Pitch a Story Sign Up for Newsletter Subscribe to Press Releases Terms of Use GIVE TO MIT Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT News Office • Building 11-400 Massachusetts Institute of Technology • Cambridge, MA 02139-4307
