Courses - Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning
Courses - Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning Texas A&M University College of Architecture College of Architecture College Website College Directory ITS Helpdesk My Email (Outlook Web Access) My Architecture Account College Intranet Departments Architecture Construction Science Landscape Architecture & Urban Planning Visualization Centers & Institutes CRS Center Center for Housing and Urban Development Hazard Reduction & Recovery Center Center for Health Systems & Design Center for Heritage Conservation Institute for Applied Creativity Institute for Sustainable Coastal Communities Outreach Colonias Program Texas Target Communities Texas Sustainable Coastal Initiative News ArchOne Newsletter College Calendar Facebook Twitter Texas A&M University Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning About us Academics Research & Teaching Service & Engagement People Prospective Students Gallery News & Events Administration Advisory Board Facilities Fact Sheets Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Certificates Courses Off Campus Studies Dual Degrees Schob Nature Preserve Faculty Research Student Works Journals Research Centers Community Outreach download application form Faculty Staff Former Students Student Organizations Administration Admissions Financing Education Scholarships & Fellowships Certificates Other Info Landscape Architecture Urban Planning Land & Property Development Study Abroad Service Learning Site Navigation About us News & Events Faculty News ArchONE Newsletters Fall Forum 2013 LAUP Lecture Series Design Week Schedule Team Rosters Open House Administration Advisory Board Facilities Fact Sheets Academics Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Change Major Graduate Admissions Admission Prerequisites Application Deadlines Required Application Materials Check List More Information Undergraduate BLA Faculty Admissions Curriculum Tuition and Fees BS-URPN Curriculum Courses Admissions Faculty Careers Student Resources Minor in Urban Planning Differential Tuition Graduate MLA Overview Admissions Curriculum Faculty Students Material Requirements Suggested Readings MUP Overview Program-Related Outcomes Curriculum Students MLPD Program Overview Why the MLPD at Texas A&M University? What do students learn? Curriculum Suggested Course Progression MLPD Core Courses MLPD Elective Courses Certificate Programs Dual Degree Options Texas A&M University Graduate Catalog Students Organizational Affiliations Current Student Profiles Former Students Admissions Admissions Process Admission Criteria Admission Deadlines Tuition & Fees Helpful Admissions Links Faculty contact URSC Faculty Admissions Curriculum Time to Degree Financial Support Resources External Review Certificates Environmental Hazard Management Facility Management Health Systems and Design Historic Preservation Sustainable Urbanism Transportation Planning Curriculum Degree Plan MUP Degree Plan MLA Degree Plan MARCH Degree Plan CVEN Degree Plan MPSA Degree Plan Student Projects Admissions Courses Off Campus Studies Dual Degrees Research & Teaching Schob Nature Preserve Design Construction Process Schob Scholars Program LAUP Mini-Grant Program 2014-15 Winning Proposals Faculty Research Student Works bla student work mla student work mlpd student work MUP Student Works Student Activities Student Projects Journals Research Centers Service & Engagement Community Outreach Texas Target Cities Program Distance education Outreach Academy download application form People Faculty Staff Former Students Student Organizations Administration Prospective Students Admissions Financing Education Scholarships & Fellowships Certificates Other Info Gallery Landscape Architecture BLA MLA Urban Planning MUP BSURPN Land & Property Development Study Abroad Service Learning About us News & Events Faculty News ArchONE Newsletters Fall Forum 2013 LAUP Lecture Series Design Week Open House Administration Advisory Board Facilities Fact Sheets Academics Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Change Major Graduate Admissions Admission Prerequisites Application Deadlines Required Application Materials Check List More Information Undergraduate BLA Faculty Admissions Curriculum Tuition and Fees BS-URPN Curriculum Courses Admissions Faculty Careers Student Resources Minor in Urban Planning Differential Tuition Graduate MLA Overview Admissions Curriculum Faculty Students Material Requirements Suggested Readings MUP Overview Program-Related Outcomes Curriculum Students MLPD Program Overview Curriculum Students Admissions Faculty contact URSC Faculty Admissions Curriculum Time to Degree Financial Support Resources External Review Certificates Environmental Hazard Management Facility Management Health Systems and Design Historic Preservation Sustainable Urbanism Transportation Planning Curriculum Student Projects Admissions Courses Off Campus Studies Dual Degrees Research & Teaching Schob Nature Preserve Design Construction Process Schob Scholars Program Faculty Research Student Works bla student work mla student work mlpd student work MUP Student Works Journals Research Centers Service & Engagement Community Outreach Texas Target Cities Program Distance education Outreach Academy download application form People Faculty Staff Former Students Student Organizations Administration Prospective Students Admissions Financing Education Scholarships & Fellowships Certificates Other Info Gallery Landscape Architecture BLA MLA Urban Planning MUP BSURPN Land & Property Development Study Abroad Service Learning LAUP ? Academics ? Courses Courses To find out more about a new course offered in any of the programs in the LAUP department or up to date information about current courses please call the LAUP main office. Main Office Telephone: 979.845.1019 Landscape Architecture (BLA) LAND 200. Introduction to Landscape Architectural Practice. (1-0). Credit 1.I Explores and evaluates the diversity of landscape architectural practice; defines the traditional practice forms and examines evolving and boundary expanding opportunities for future practice; introduces the departmental curriculum and faculty.* LAND 240. History of Landscape Architecture. (3-0). Credit 3. I An introduction to the history of land use and design from prehistory to the present in areas other than the United States; emphasis on European and Asian planning and design precedent. Africa and Australia are also discussed. Prerequisite: Sophomore classification or higher.* LAND 254. Landscape Architecture Communications I. (2-4). Credit 3 . Introduction to basic drafting and drawing required for landscape architecture projects, introduction to basic concepts, principles of graphic composition and pencil sketching techniques. Prerequisite: ENDS 115 or approval of instructor. LAND 255. Landscape Architectural Communications II. (2-4). Credit 3 . I Advanced study in traditional and computer-based communication techniques in landscape architecture including studio explorations in concept and analysis graphics, color sketching, perspective drawing and rendering, desktop publishing, image capturing and manipulation, and compilation of graphic presentations; lecture, demonstrations and studio assignments. Prerequisite: LAND 254 or approval of instructor.* LAND 291. Research. Credit 1 to 4. Research conducted under the direction of faculty member in landscape architecture. May be repeated 2 times for credit. Prerequisites: Freshman or sophomore classification and approval of instructor. LAND 310. Landscape Theory. (3-0). Credit 3 . Relevant theoretical discourse in landscape architecture and urban planning; urban theory, social and cultural theory; environmental philosophy and environmental aesthetics. Prerequisite: Junior classification or approval of instructor. LAND 318. Landscape Design I. (2-7). Credit 4 . I Beginning studio course in land design; forces that produce usable three-dimensional site-space relationships; problems presented to give a basic knowledge of the scope of landscape architecture. Prerequisites: LAND 255; junior classification.* LAND 319. Landscape Design II. (2-7). Credit 4. II Continuation of LAND 318; basic design principles that combine natural systems (such as landform, water, vegetation, wildlife habitat, soils, climate) and man-built systems (such as roads, buildings, utilities). Prerequisites: LAND 318 and 329; junior classification.* LAND 320. Landscape Design III. (2-9). Credit 5. I Design process, synthesis and design refinement; problems to stimulate highly creative self-motivated results. Prerequisites: LAND 319 and 330.* Course Descriptions/Landscape Architecture 761 LAND 321. Landscape Design IV. (2-9). Credit 5. II Continuation of LAND 320; land design projects of increased complexity with site scale problems used to demonstrate complete design thought. One or more field trips may be required as part of the course. Prerequisite: LAND 320.* LAND 329. Landscape Construction I. (2-4). Credit 3. II Aspects of land manipulation and consideration of earth bound elements in landscape development; contours, landform, grading design, drainage principles, cut and fill computations, basic hydraulics, drafting. Prerequisite: Junior or senior classification.* LAND 330. Landscape Construction II. (2-4). Credit 3. I Various construction elements typically found in landscape development; statics and mechanics of simple structures; wood, masonry, concrete construction procedures and techniques; drafting, lettering and clarity of details. Portfolio required. Prerequisites: LAND 318 and 329.* LAND 331. Landscape Construction III. (2-4). Credit 3. II Construction document preparation, working drawings, project layout and design; theory and principles of irrigation and lighting design. Field trips and portfolio required. Prerequisites: LAND 320 and 330.* LAND 340. Development of Landscape Architecture in North America. (3-0). Credit 3 . The interaction between people and the land in North America from pre-European settlement to the present; trends and settlement patterns, resource exploitation, relationships of cultural, social, technological and political factors to land use, and on the growth and current roles of the profession of landscape architecture. Prerequisite: Sophomore classification.* LAND 420. Landscape Design V. (3-9). Credit 6. I Advanced site scale problems to include major design project supported with complete programming, design and project management components. Prerequisites: LAND 321 and 331.* LAND 421. Landscape Design VI. (2-9). Credit 5. II Advanced study and research designed to take the student beyond the core design experience; introduction of issues, methodologies, tools and techniques developing in professional practice. Prerequisite: LAND 420.* LAND 442. Professional Practice. (3-0). Credit 3 . Introduction to the procedures, project management and ethical framework in which professional landscape architectural practice occurs including proposal preparation, fee structures, forms of practice, project management and construction documents. Prerequisites: LAND 420; senior classification; approval of instructor.* LAND 461. Geographic Information System Application in Resource Management. (2-4). Credit 3 . Process of and planning for change in the urban environment and its infrastructure; Geographic Information System (GIS) tools introduced and used to support this work; GIS theory and resource management modeling. Prerequisites: Junior classification and approval of instructor.* LAND 484. Internship. (3-0). Credit 3 . Practical experience in an office of design allied professionals; 12 week internship with a minimum of 480 hours; continuous employment; departmental pre-approval through the department internship coordinator required. May not be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: Upper level classification and approval of internship coordinator. LAND 485. Directed Studies. Credit 1 to 6. I, II , S Special problems in various phases of landscape architecture assigned to individual students or to groups. Consultation and assigned collateral reading. Prerequisite: Approval of department head.* LAND 489. Special Topics in... Credit 1 to 4. I, II , S Selected topics in an identified field of landscape architecture. May be repeated for credit.* LAND 491. Research. Credit 1 to 4 . Research conducted under the direction of faculty member in landscape architecture. May be repeated 2 times for credit. Prerequisites: Junior or senior classification and approval of instructor. LAND 494. Internship. (6-0). Credit 6 . An internship (15 week, 600 hours) with a landscape architecture or landscape architecture-related company that exposes the student to landscape architectural professional practice; monthly reports, final internship portfolio and internship supervisor assessment letter required; distance education course with non-resident status. Prerequisites: LAND 321 and approval of coordinator. Bachelor of Science in Urban and Regional Planning (BSURPN) URPN 201. Urban Form and City Planning. (3-0). Credit 3. Introduction to the history of contemporary urban and regional planning and how the evolving forms of cities and regions pose opportunities and/or challenges for planners; understanding key social, economic, political and technological forces that shape city form and function and its ramification for urban and regional planning. Prerequisite: Urban and regional sciences majors only, department minors or approval of instructor. URPN 210. Urban Analytical Methods I. (3-0). Credit 3. Study of various analytical techniques used in urban and regional decision making; quantitative approaches to analyze and manipulate data; utilization of statistical packages for data, analysis and communication to enhance urban planning modeling. Prerequisite: URSC majors only or approval of instructor. URPN 220. Digital Communication I. (3-0). Credit 3. Applications of computer graphics, rendering, and visualization software in urban design, landscape architecture, and environmental analysis; introduction to basic concepts and principles of graphic composition; rendering, visualization, and linkages to landscape-referenced data. Prerequisite: URPN majors only or approval of instructor. URPN 291. Research. Credit 1 to 4. Research conducted under the direction of faculty member in landscape architecture and urban planning. May be taken 2 times for credit. Prerequisites: Freshman or sophomore classification. URPN 301. Urban and Regional Planning. (3-0). Credit 3. Determinants of land use patterns; classification of uses; idealized conceptual alternatives; location and size criteria; mapping; comprehensive planning process, relationship to circulation planning. Prerequisite: URPN majors only. URPN 302. Planning Law. (3-0). Credit 3. Familiarization with the fundamental principles of planning law and legislation; legal foundation for the urban planning process; alternative methods of plan implementation; emphasis on legal issues as they impact land use planning and development at the municipal level of government; participation in mock advocacy trials and public hearings. Prerequisites: URSC 301; junior or senior classification or approval of instructor. URPN 310. Urban Analytical Methods II. (3-0). Credit 3. Focuses on research conducted by planners, sociologists, anthropologists, political scientists and a variety of applied social scientists; examines variety of procedures employed when conducting research in urban areas; furthers understanding and knowledge of statistical methods employed in social research and elements of geographical analysis. Prerequisite: Upper division College of Architecture; URSC 210 or approval of instructor. URPN 320. Digital Communication II. (3-0). Credit 3. Advanced applications of computer graphics, rendering, and visualization software in urban design, landscape architecture, and environmental analysis; introduction to basic concepts and principles of graphic composition, rendering, visualization, and linkages to landscapereferenced data. Prerequisites: URSC 220; junior or senior classification or approval of instructor. URPN 325. Introduction to GIS in Urban and Regional Studies. (2-3). Credit 3. Provides students an understanding of GIS fundamentals; basic concepts, principles and functions; essential skills for applying GIS in various fields such as urban planning, landscape architecture, land development, environmental studies, transportation and hazard management; based on learning through class projects. Prerequisite: Upper division College of Architecture; URPN majors only or approval of instructor. URPN 326. Advanced GIS in Urban and Regional Planning. (3-0). Credit 3. Advanced instruction in applications of spatial tools for urban planning, landscape architecture, land development, hazard management, and related problems; GIS applications through review of literature and practice; data quality, uncertainty, the integration of GPS, remote sensing and information technology within the context of urban and regional planning. Prerequisite: URSC 325 or approval of instructor. URPN 330. Land Development I. (3-0). Credit 3. Interface between the physical and financial dimensions in design and development to achieve building and project economies; creating a physical product and a financial venture that are responsive to social and environmental concerns and to market economy and finance. Prerequisite: Junior or senior classification or approval of instructor. URPN 331. Public and Private Infrastructure Funding. (3-0). Credit 3. An introduction to issues of financing public and public-private development project; exploring the difference between raising revenue, including the trade offs associated with establishing a sustainable tax base, and raising capital through capital markets; illustration of the range of decisions with financing public and public-private partnerships. Prerequisite: Upper division College of Architecture; URPN majors only or approval of instructor. URPN 340. Housing and Community. (3-0). Credit 3. Housing, its development, planning, marketing, designing, financing and production; social and design history and contemporary issues of American housing development, urban renewal, neighborhood structure and community facilities. Prerequisite: Junior or senior classification. URPN 360. Issues in Environmental Quality. (3-0). Credit 3. Issues in environmental quality; focus on stormwater and ecosystem qualities influenced by land development; design and planning principles and techniques (e.g. low impact development) for sustainable stormwater management in urban and suburban watersheds. Prerequisite: Junior or senior classification or approval of instructor. URPN 369. Transportation and Urban Form. (3-0). Credit 3. Examination of the interrelated nature of transportation, land use and urban design; familiarization with the role of transportation in contemporary society; understanding the interrelationships between transportation and urban form at both the regional and community levels. Prerequisite: Junior or senior classification or approval of instructor. URPN 370. Health Systems Planning. (3-0). Credit 3. I, II, S Introduction to planning in the health care system at both institutional and community levels. URPN 371. Environmental Health Planning and Policy. (3-0). Credit 3. Philosophical and historical relationships of human-environment-disease; environmental health domains and associated planning and policy organizations and initiative for monitoring, intervention, and prevention; interdisciplinary approaches for risk analysis of environmental health. Prerequisite: Junior or senior classification or approval of instructor. URPN 401. Policy Implementation. (3-0). Credit 3. Techniques of implementing major urban development programs and plans; capital improvements programming and budgeting; overview of regulatory measures including zoning and subdivision regulations; public involvement process; and fiscal planning. Prerequisite: Upper division College of Architecture or approval of instructor. URPN 440. Urban and Regional Economic Development. (3-0). Credit 3. Examines economic development processes in urban and regional planning; issues explored include theoretical, the economic development planning process, ethics, location factors, intergovernmental relations, budgeting, and private sector revenue generation. Prerequisite: Junior or senior classification or approval of instructor. URPN 441. Neighborhood Revitalization. (3-0). Credit 3. Examination of the causes of decline of central cities, with the goal of developing a realistic view of who is affected, and why, so that a realistic foundation can be laid for successful redevelopment projects; topics and case studies on downtown decline and redevelopment, older city neighborhood problems and retrofitting. Prerequisite: Upper division College of Architecture. URPN 450. Emergency Management Principles and Practices. (3-0). Credit 3. Introduction to the fundamental principles of emergency management. Prerequisite: Upper division College of Architecture or approval of instructor. URPN 460. Sustainable Communities. (3-0). Credit 3. Focuses on sustainable community with applications in public policy/design including societal organization, disciplinary bound design and policy, and empowered approaches to design, social ecology and public policy; reading and review of relevant literature on sustainability, complemented with exercises to illustrate underlying principles. Prerequisite: Junior or senior classification or approval of instructor. URPN 461. Urban Issues. (3-0). Credit 3. Issues pertaining to the evolution and development of cities and urban regions; examines the socio-economic, cultural and physical development of urban areas; addresses contemporary problems such as racial tension, unemployment and poverty, housing, pollution and environmental sustainability, traffic and congestion, land use, crime, public health, and other quality of life issues. Prerequisite: Junior or senior classification or approval of instructor. URPN 469. Urban Infrastructure. (3-0). Credit 3. Foundation of planning and managing infrastructure and public services; utilization of life-cycle method of infrastructure planning and delivery, research theory and tools to perform basic infrastructure planning. Prerequisite: URPN majors only or approval of instructor. URPN 470. Health Systems Planning and Policy. (3-0). Credit 3. Analyzes health needs at community, regional and national levels; organization and supply of health services at community, regional and national levels; medical technology and its impact on health needs and system organization; medical care financing and its effects on health need and system organization; health planning for natural and human-made disasters; and service-learning for applying planning theories and methods. Prerequisite: Junior or senior classification or approval of instructor. URPN 471. Planning Healthier Communities. (3-0). Credit 3. Planning for the creation of healthier cities/communities; emphasis on the impact of global paradigmatic shifts regarding community health, stakeholder participation, coalition building, leadership, visioning the planning process, and the need for more systemic and process orientation in community building. Prerequisite: Junior or senior classification or approval of instructor. URPN 481. Seminar. (1-0). Credit 1. Seminar discussion of current topics in urban planning. Prerequisite: Senior classification. URPN 483. Studio in Urban and Regional Science. Credit 1 to 6. Studio introduces the confluence of ecological, environmental, economic, social, cultural, and political forces impacting the planning, design, and development of complex urban environments; site planning, design process, sustainability. Prerequisite: URPN majors only or approval of instructor. URPN 484. Internship. (3-0). Credit 3. Practical experience in an office of design allied professionals; 12 week internship with a minimum of 480 hours; continuous employment; departmental pre-approval through the department internship coordinator required. May not be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: Upper level classification and approval of internship coordinator. URPN 485. Directed Studies. Credit 1 to 5. Individual instruction in selected aspects of urban planning not adequately covered in other courses. May be taken 3 times for credit. Prerequisite: Upper level classification. URPN 489. Special Topics In... Credit 1 to 4. Selected topics in an identified field of urban studies. May be repeated for credit. URPN 491. Research. Credit 1 to 4. Research conducted under the direction of faculty member in landscape architecture and urban planning. May be taken 2 times for credit. Prerequisites: Junior or senior classification. URPN 493. Urban and Regional Studies Capstone Course. (5-0). Credit 5. Syntheses and application of skills and knowledge gained through coursework applied to the development of creative solutions to real-world projects. Prerequisites: URPN 310, 331, 410, 469; LAND 494; senior classification; URPNmajors only. URPN 494. Internship. (6-0). Credit 6. Practical experience in public, private, non-profit and for profit organizations of design allied professionals; 18 week internship with a minimum of 720 hours; continuous employment; departmental pre-approval through the department internship coordinator required. May not be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: Upper level classification and approval of internship coordinator. Landscape Architecture (MLA) LAND 601. Landscape Architectural Design Theory. (2-9). Credit 5. Principles and application of landscape architectural design theory, relationships of two and three dimensional space as they relate to the natural and built environment, and illustrative communication. Prerequisites: Graduate classification and approval of instructor. LAND 602. Landscape Architectural Design Application. (2-9). Credit 5. Application of design concepts to site planning and site specific contemporary issues including natural systems, social, political, technological and economic influences on design. Prerequisites: LAND 601. LAND 603. Principles and Techniques of Land Development. (2-12). Credit 6. A continuation of LAND 601 – 602 design sequence for career change students; organized to develop an understanding of the various systems that must be integrated through land design; applies this understanding through planning and design of a project, including project programming, site selection, master planning, site design and working drawings. Prerequisites: LAND 602 and approval of instructor. LAND 612. Landscape Architectural Site Development. (2-6). Credit 4. Concepts, theories and techniques of site development; creative land form modification, landscape construction materials and structures, drainage principles, site circulation and utilization of materials. Prerequisite: Approval of instructor. LAND 614. Landscape Architectural Construction. (2-4). Credit 3. An introduction to the basic elements of landscape architectural construction; course stresses applications of the basic principles of statics and mechanics of simple structures in the use of wood, concrete and masonry plus the design of irrigation and lighting systems. Prerequisite: LAND 612. LAND 620. Open Space Development I. (2-9). Credit 5. Solution of complex open space problems. Subjects may be as diversified as large scale land-planning study or the development of a large residential site. Prerequisite: Graduate classification in landscape architecture or approval of instructor. LAND 621. Open Space Development II. (2-9). Credit 5. Continuation of LAND 620; production of plans and reports. Prerequisite: LAND 620. LAND 630. Development of Landscape Architecture. (3-0). Credit 3. Overview of the history of human settlement, land use and landscape architecture outside of North America. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. LAND 640. Research Methods in Landscape Architecture. (3-0). Credit 3. Research methods including theory, hypothesis formulation, design, data collection, measurement and report writing; equates research activity to landscape architecture and the interaction between people and their physical environment. Prerequisite: LAND 603 or equivalent. LAND 645. Practice Diversity in Landscape Architecture. (3-0). Credit 3. An exploration of the diversity of practice opportunities within the profession of Landscape Architecture; individual roles within those areas of practice and the skills required to function successfully within them. Prerequisites: Graduate classification and approval of instructor. LAND 646. Professional Practice. (3-0). Credit 3. Introduction to the procedures, project management and ethical framework in which professional landscape architectural practice occurs; topics include proposal preparation, fee structures, forms of practice, project management and contract documents. Prerequisites: Graduate classification and approval of instructor. LAND 655. Landscape Architectural Communication. (2-4). Credit 3. Graphic communication techniques required to expand landscape architectural concepts and designs including plan graphics, analysis and inventory graphics, perspective drawings, sketch composition, rendering media, color scanning, use of software and desktop. LAND 661. Visual Quality for Design and Planning. (3-0). Credit 3. Emphasis on social science perspectives for analyzing visual quality in the built and natural landscapes, and effects of visual surroundings on human well-being and health; the content reflects a balance of theory, scientific research evidence and practical applications in areas of landscape architecture, architecture, urban planning and park design. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. LAND 681. Seminar. Credit 1 each semester. Analysis and criticism of selected landscape architectural projects. Lectures, reports and discussions. Prerequisite: Graduate classification in landscape architecture. LAND 684. Professional Internship. Credit 1 to 8. Professional practice under approved arrangement with public or private agencies. Off-campus internships are limited to a maximum of 8 credit hours per semester. LAND 685. Directed Studies. Credit 1 to 6. Individual problems involving application of theory and practice in planning and design of the environment. LAND 689. Special Topics in… Credit 1 to 4. Selected topics in an identified area of landscape architecture. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisite: Approval of instructor. LAND 691. Research. Credit 1 or more each semester. Research for and preparation of dissertation. Prerequisite: Doctoral classification. LAND 693. Professional Study. Credit 1 to 6 each semester. Approver professional study project undertaken as the terminal requirement for the master of landscape architecture degree. Preparation of a record of study summarizing rationale, procedure and results of the completed activity. Prerequisite: Approval of committee chair. Urban Planning (MUP) PLAN 601. Introduction to Planning. (1-0). Credit 1. Will give an overview of the field of planning, the main areas of concentration/employment within the field, the faculty, their areas of expertise, etc. Prerequisite: All MUP students in their first semester. PLAN 604. Planning Methods I. (3-0). Credit 3. Fundamental concepts and methods used in urban and regional research; qualitative and quantitative research designs; measurement and scaling; sampling; data collection; data file construction; introduction to data analysis and statistical inference. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. PLAN 610. Structure and Function of Urban Settlements. (3-0). Credit 3. The study of urbanization and how geographic, economic, sociological and political factors give rise to changes in the structure and functions of cities; how the movement of people, products, services and capital create unique urban patterns of land use and infrastructure with implications for long-term livability and sustainability. Prerequisites: Graduate classification. PLAN 612. Transportation in City Planning. (2-3). Credit 3. Influence of transportation in shaping urban form; relationships between land use and transportation; conceptual layout of street systems; trends in urban development, site development, circulation and relationships to the street system; guidelines for the redevelopment of existing streets and the adjacent land. PLAN 613. Planning Methods and Techniques. (3-0). Credit 3. Methods and techniques of research, data collection and analysis; coordination of planning process with public policy and plan implementation. PLAN 614. Planning and Technological Changes. (3-0). Credit 3. Examines the general relationships between technology and social change; examine the historical and technological roots of change; focuses on the social impact of technological change. PLAN 616. Analyzing Risk/Hazard and Public Policy. (3-0). Credit 3. Evaluation and development of risk analysis, including risk assessment, perception of risk, risk communication and risk management; the mitigation of risk, involving technology, emergency management, disaster preparedness; emphasizes the relationship with risk analysis in public policy, participation, emergency preparedness, hazard mitigation and the management of risk. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. PLAN 620. Dispute Resolution and Participation in Planning. (3-0). Credit 3. Theory and practice of public policy-oriented alternative dispute resolution (ADR) especially in environmental and land planning and regulation; practical skills of facilitation/mediation as aids to conventional public participation; voluntary negotiation as a supplement to regulation; relevant theoretical perspectives from decision and game theory and compensation literatures. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. PLAN 623. Development Planning in Third World Countries. (3-0). Credit 3. Examines historical, political, economic, social and cultural dimensions of “Third World” development problems; application of planning methods and techniques toward long-term solutions in the context of unfolding contemporary world events; considers the role of international lending institutions, technical assistance and funding requirements in developing countries. PLAN 625. Geographical Information Systems in Landscape and Urban Planning. (2-3). Credit 3. Provides students an understanding of GIS fundamentals; basic concepts, principles and functions; essential skills for applying GIS in various fields such as urban planning, landscape architecture, land development, environment studies, transportation and hazard management; based on learning through class projects. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. PLAN 626. Advanced GIS in Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning. (2-2). Credit 3. Continuation of GIS in Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning PLAN 625; topics include advanced spatial analysis technology: emphasis on urban planning, landscape architecture, land development, hazard management and related applications to issues. Prerequisite: PLAN 625. PLAN 627. Economic Development. (3-0). Credit 3. Examines the strategies employed in the pursuit of local economic development. Discusses basic principals for critically assessing alternative development policies and programs; reflects on the goals and objectives of economic development efforts; and identifies tools for structure and financing local projects. PLAN 628. Affordable Housing Development. (3-0). Credit 3. Affordable Housing Development is designed to teach planning and land development students how the development of affordable housing through public, private and non-profit partnerships can meet the housing needs of low-and- moderate-income households. PLAN 629. Neighborhood Revitalization. (3-0). Credit 3. This course addresses the social, political and economic theory of neighborhoods-their growth, function and design. Students will gain an understanding of how neighborhoods experience change, as well as the consequences of this change for residents. PLAN 630. Survey of Health Planning Processes. (3-0). Credit 3. Considers evolution and development of the health care system in the U.S. and how hospitals and other health service institutions go about developing strategic planning systems. PLAN 631. Health Systems Planning and Policy. (3-0). Credit 3. Specific health planning issues; distribution of manpower and facilities, financial local-federal partnership, system’s organization and governance. Cross-listed with BUSH 662. PLAN 633. Planning for Healthy Communities. (3-0). Credit 3. An introduction to issues involved in planning healthy cities/communities; by exploring experiences initiated by the World Health Organization and subsequent international experiences, attention is given to the healthy cities/communities movement in the United States and the case studies of programs at local, state and national levels. PLAN 634. Environmental Health Policy and Planning. (3-0). Credit 3. Interdisciplinary perspective of environmental risk analysis methods and policy implications; federal and state agencies and programs involved in developing and implementing environmental health policies and monitoring environmental health hazards; historical and economic context of environmental health legislation; framework for policy making process and criteria to determine effectiveness and outcomes. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. PLAN 640. Law and Legislation Related to Planning. (3-0). Credit 3. Legislative process and planning legislation; enabling legislation and legal tools of planner: zoning, subdivision ordinances, eminent domain, extraterritorial jurisdiction and other related planning instruments. PLAN 641. Problems of Environmental Planning Administration. (3-0). Credit 3. State and federal legislation pertaining to environmental and consumer protection aspects of urban planning; review of administrative procedures; major judicial decisions. PLAN 643. Preservation Law. (3-0). Credit 3. Theory and practice of historic preservation in the legal context; the constitutional and statutory foundations of historic resources planning and plan implementation; review of case studies and municipal ordinances. PLAN 647. Disaster Recovery and Hazard Mitigation. (3-0). Credit 3. Interdisciplinary study of the impacts of environmental disasters; describes process of disaster recovery and examines methods of reducing future vulnerability; analyzes regulation, market mechanisms, and public education as methods for implementing mitigation measures. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. PLAN 649. Organizational and Community Response to Crises and Disasters. (3-0). Credit 3. Introduction to the study of organized and community planning and response to natural and technological disasters and social crisis; focus upon emergency preparedness and response; practical issues, planning for emergency management and existing research literature of basic disaster at the organization and community levels. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. PLAN 650. Disaster Response Planning. (3-0). Credit 3. Mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery strategies; roles of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Governor’s Division of Emergency Management, the National Weather Service and the American Red Cross. PLAN 651. Planning for Coastal and Marine Protected Areas. (3-0). Credit 3. The science, policy and politics of establishing coastal and marine protected areas (CMPAs); an interdisciplinary graduate- level seminar; the theory and practice of using protected areas to manage complex problems related to the coastal and marine environment. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. PLAN 654. Planning Administration and Management. (1-0). Credit 1. Issues of professional practice in public and private sectors. PLAN 656. Housing and Community. (3-0). Credit 3. Housing, its development, planning, marketing, designing, financing, and production; social and design history and contemporary issues of American housing development, urban renewal, neighborhood structure and community facilities. PLAN 658. Plan Implementation. (3-0). Credit 3. Techniques of implementing major urban development programs and plans; capital improvements programming and budgeting; overview of regulatory measures including zoning and subdivision regulations; public involvement process; and fiscal planning. PLAN 661. Information and Communication in Planning. (2-2). Credit 3. Types and sources of planning related information; use of verbal, printed and electronic media in communicating planning information and formulating alternative solutions to community development problems. PLAN 662. Applied Planning I. (1-6). Credit 3. Acquisition, analysis, and management of information pertaining to urban and regional planning in a case specific scenario; issue analysis; formulation of goals and objectives, and policies; consensus building; includes all tasks leading up to the preparation of an urban, regional or strategic plan. PLAN 663. Applied Planning II. (1-6). Credit 3. Preparation of a major plan or planning document for a specific subject associated with the field of urban and regional planning including the environment; land use; urban design; transportation systems; housing and community facilities; infrastructure systems; growth management systems; urban image; and other topics. Prerequisite: PLAN 662 or approval of instructor. PLAN 664. Planning Theory and History. (3-0). Credit 3. A critical examination of the justifications for and major alternative approaches to planning in the public domain, beginning with the fundamental historical intentions of and projects in city planning within industrial societies and tracing the subsequent development of planning as political reform, political analysis, social mobilization and other modern variants. PLAN 665. Plan Making. (3-0). Credit 3. Introduction to a wide variety of styles and methodologies employed by the urban and regional planner; planning styles reviewed include: comprehensive land use planning; policies planning; strategic planning; regional planning; and private sector corporate planning. Emphasis is given to the actual review and content analysis of plans. PLAN 669. Urban Infrastructure Planning. (2-2). Credit 3. Identification of urban infrastructure requirements; criteria for utility location and design; projection of the conversion of land to urban uses; estimating demand for urban services; anticipating the effect of urbanization on storm runoff; and municipal practice in financing infrastructure extensions. PLAN 670. Urban Public Transportation Planning. (2-3). Credit 3. Planning, operations, fiscal, management and legal aspects of urban, rural and regional public transportation modes; preparation of transportation systems program elements. PLAN 673. Design for Sustainable Transportation. (3-0). Credit 3. Introduce planning and design principles, techniques, and examples for achieving sustainable transportation; transit-oriented development, neo-traditional design, traffic calming, non-motorized travel, and smart growth; car sharing, parking pricing, location efficient mortgage, and alternative vehicles and fuel technologies. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. PLAN 674. Transportation System Analysis. (3-0). Credit 3. Introduces basic concepts and techniques of modeling, analyzing and solving problems in transportation systems planning, operations, management and design within a unified framework for transportation systems analysis; includes: disaggregate demand theory and application, activity analysis and land use forecasting, network optimization stochastic processes, queuing models and simulation. Prerequisite: CVEN 672 or approval of instructor. PLAN 675. Theory of Planning and Urbanism. (3-0). Credit 3. Theories of planning and urbanization in world literature; physical community design as expression of ideology and cultural value systems. PLAN 676. Transportation Investment Decisions. (3-0). Credit 3. The course provides the graduate-level student with an overview of the elements of transportation investment decisions including transportation supply, demand, finance, and economic impact. PLAN 678. Applied Transportation Studio: Site Planning and Traffic Impact. (3-0). Credit 3. This course provides a practical overview of urban planning and transportation topics including transportation- land use, functional classification, thoroughfare and land use planning, site planning, traffic impact analysis, access management and site design. Prerequisite: Admission by instructor’s consent. PLAN 681. Seminar. (1-0). Credit 1. Reports and discussions of current research and selected topics in urban and regional planning. Prerequisite: Approval of instructor. PLAN 684. Professional Internship. Credit 1 to 8. Professional practice under approved arrangement with public or private agencies. PLAN 685. Directed Studies. Credit 1 to 6 each semester. Individual and group problems dealing with application of planning theory and practice. Opportunities to select foreign and domestic planning project of special interest. PLAN 689. Special Topics in... Credit 1 to 4. Selected topics in an identified area of urban and regional planning. May be repeated for credit. PLAN 691. Research. Credit 1 or more each semester. Research for thesis or dissertation. PLAN 693. Professional Study. Credit 1 to 6. Approved professional study project undertaken as the terminal requirement for the Master of Urban Planning degree; preparation of a record of study summarizing rationale, procedure and results of the completed activity. Prerequisite: Approval of committee chair. Land and Property Development (MLPD) LDEV 661. Development and the Environment. (3-0). Credit 3. Land development in the context of environment sustainability, human well being and business profitability to foster a restorative economy; environmental easement and site analysis; state, federal and international regulatory issues; and human ecology and the future of land development. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. LDEV 662. Land Development Law. (3-0). Credit 3. Survey of real estate law with emphasis on Texas law; review of constitutional issues and basic legal concepts, including estates in land, contracts; private and public sector land use controls. LDEV 663. Introduction to Project Management. (3-0). Credit 3. Project management processes for planning, scheduling, cost estimating resource leveling, cost control and post-completion evaluation; issues in project organizational environments, documentation, quality control safety. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. LDEV 664. Market Analysis for Development. (3-0). Credit 3. Techniques and data sources for market analysis for development; analysis for housing development; trade area analysis and market analysis for retail development; analysis for office, industrial parks and for specialized development. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. LDEV 665. Land Development Trends. (3-0). Credit 3. Exploration of a variety of specialized topics associated with emerging trends in the land development industry. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. LDEV 667. Design and Development Economy. (3-0). Credit 3. Interface between the physical and financial dimensions in the design and development process to achieve building and project economics; creating a physical product and a financial venture that responds to social and environmental concerns and to market economy and feasibility analysis. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. LDEV 668. Land Development Practice. (2-2). Credit 3. Strategies, methods and techniques of land development including: site selection criteria, urban infrastructure; market evaluation; conceptual arrangement of land uses and structures; conceptual design and regulatory considerations; lending institutions; location theory; value theories; regulatory agencies. Prerequisite: LDEV 667. LDEV 669. Income Property Land Development. (3-0). Credit 3. Exploration of the characteristics of real estate as an investment, venture and capital structures, the development process, site and financial feasibility, and project funding; strategies, methods and technologies for investment property development utilizing current developments. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. LDEV 671. Sustainable Development. (3-0). Credit 3. Sustainability perspectives about values, rights, property and what constitutes an optimum human environment; sustainability principles and case studies emphasizing on-the-ground, incentive-based land development that balances economic growth with environmental quality. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. LDEV 672. Public-Private Project Funding. (3-0). Credit 3. Financing and related issues in public-private development projects; explores structuring, valuing and managing projects and investigates the interaction between suppliers, operators, lenders and contractors; introduction to financial tools: loans, credit, interest rates and financial models. LDEV 673. International Development Planning. (3-0). Credit 3. International variations in urban growth and land development strategies: savings, aid and trade policy options for cities and regions; international co-development programs; application of planning and urban land development professions in contemporary global context. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. LDEV 681. Seminar. (1-0). Credit 1. College of Architecture research activities pertaining to land and real estate development; preparation and presentation of required final paper for MS in Land Development examination. Prerequisite: Graduate classification in land development. LDEV 683. International Development Perspectives. (1-0). Credit 1. Recent international conceptual frontiers in development and redevelopment; land and real estate development activities in the Far East, South America, Mexico and Eastern Europe; assessment of the future of global development. Prerequisite: Graduate classification. LDEV 684. Professional Internship. Credit 1 to 12. Professional practice under approved arrangement with public or private land or real estate development agencies in the United States or abroad. Prerequisites: Approval of committee chair and program coordinator. LDEV 685. Directed Studies. Credit 1 to 12. Individual and group problems dealing with application of strategic plan development theory in practice: opportunities to select international or domestic development projects of special interest. Prerequisite: Approval of instructor. LDEV 687. Development Feasibility and Design. (3-9). Credit 3. Selected residential and non-residential development projects of varying size analyzed by student teams with respect to the following: economic feasibility and cash flow; site analysis; and design concept. Prerequisite: Approval of instructor. LDEV 688. Development Feasibility and Design II. (1-6). Credit 3. Plans and venture structures for selected residential and non-residential development projects of varying size analyzed by student multidisciplinary teams with respect to the following; economic feasibility and cash flow and site and design plans and costs. Prerequisite: LDEV 687 or approval of instructor. LDEV 689. Special Topics in... Credit 1 to 4. Selected topics in an identified area of land development. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisite: Approval of instructor. LDEV 691. Research. Credit 1 or more each semester. PhD research and preparation of dissertation. Prerequisite: Doctoral classification. LDEV 693. Professional Study. Credit 1 to 6. Approved professional case study of project organization in the USA or abroad undertaken as terminal requirement for the Master of Science in land development degree, non-thesis option. Prerequisites: Approval of committee chair and associate department head. Urban and Regional Science (URSC) URSC 631. Foundations of Planning Thought. (3-0). Credit 3. This PhD level course examines a series of foundational issues in planning and design theory. These include the definition of planning problems, rationality, modernism and post modernism, the validation of value judgments, relations with future generations, multiculturalism and gender justice in liberal democratic societies. Prerequisite: Doctoral classification or instructor permission. URSC 632. Structure and Functions of Cities and Regions. (3-0). Credit 3. Surveys the design, financial, natural, physical, political and social parameters that influence the development of cities and regions, including presentation of theories about cities and regions, organizations of, planning to shape them, and public and private sector plans for structure and function of cities and regions. Prerequisite: Doctoral classification or instruction permission. URSC 641. Analytic Methods in Landscape and Urban Research I. (3-0). Credit 3. Explicitly address linking theory, measurement, data set development and data analysis issues critical for conducting research in urban and regional planning and landscape architecture. Prerequisites: Doctoral classification or approval of instructor. URSC 642. Analytic methods in Landscape and Urban Research II. (3-0). Credit 3. Provides students in urban and regional science with a survey of hands on experiences with advance techniques and procedures related to conceptual measurement and operational issues, data set development and manipulation and data analysis issues critical for conducting academic research. Prerequisites: STAT 651, CARC 601, URSC 641, permission. URSC 681. Seminar (1-0). Credit 1. Oral communication of current research and selected topics in urban and regional science to include lecturers, presentations, interviews and discussions. Prerequisite: Approval of instructor. URSC 682. Seminar. (1-0). Credit 1. Written communication of current research and selected topics in urban and regional science to include posters, articles, reports and books. Prerequisite: Approval of instructor. URSC 685. Directed Studies. Credit 1 to 6. Directed study of selected problems within urban and regional science. Prerequisite: Approval of instructor. URSC 689. Special Topic in… Credit 1 to 4. Selected topics in and identified area of urban and regional science. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisite: Approval of instructor. URSC 691. Research. Credit 1 or more each semester. Research for dissertation. Prerequisite: Approval of instructor. Undergraduate Courses Landscape Architecture - LAND B.S. in Urban and Regional Planning - URSC Graduate Courses College of Architecture - CARC Land and Property Development - LDEV Landscape Architecture - LAND Urban Planning - PLAN Urban and Regional Sciences - URSC All Texas A&M University graduate courses Course Schedules for all degrees © 2015 College of Architecture, Texas A&M University. Contact Information | Accessibility | Site Policies
