DPD Home Page | Difference, Power, & Discrimination | Oregon State University
DPD Home Page | Difference, Power, & Discrimination | Oregon State University Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Search for people and pages All of OSU Difference, Power, & Discrimination Difference, Power, & DiscriminationSelect to search All of OSU Select to search for People Select to search for Media Difference, Power, & Discrimination DPD Home Page Sex in Play Sports and toys — what could be more natural for children and youth? But the cultural messages they carry have consequences. "Proof" In 2001, a year after its debut on Broadway, "Proof" was awarded the following:  the Drama Desk Award for Best New Play, the Lucille Lortel Award for Outstanding Play, the New York Drama Critics' Circle Best Play, the Pulitzer Prize for Drama, and the Tony Award for Best Play. Maps How does something as simple as a map of the world effect our perceived reality? Who's Counting? - Marilyn Waring “In this feature-length documentary, Marilyn Waring demystifies the language of economics by defining it as a value system in which all goods and activities are related only to their monetary value." Stereotype Threat: The Nature and Nurture of Intelligence Free Webinar that occured on Tuesday May 8, 2012.  Hosted by WEPAN. Teaching About Social Justice Content in Online and Hybrid Courses Panel discussion around teaching DPD content through online formats.  Panelists shared experiences and practices they found useful to promote competency along the DPD student learning outcomes. Fat Studies: Teaching About Weightism as a Social Justice Issue This presentation gave an overview of weight bias and the field of Fat Studies from which instructors may draw resources to integrate material on this topic into their courses.               All Stories Welcome to the Difference, Power, and Discrimination Website.  Please be patient as our website is currently under construction.  For upcoming events, please see our calendar, for previous events, please see the Event Flashback Page. Be sure to browse the website and return often for new and updated content. DPD Happenings Teaching Race, Gender, and Sexuality: Addressing Student Resistance -- Dr. Andrea Smith, UC, Riverside - Mar 9th, 2015 On April 3, from 9-11 a.m., in MU 208, Dr. Andrea Smith, Associate Professor in Media & Cultural Studies at University of California,... Read More POSTPONED DUE TO ILLNESS: Class in the Classroom: Creating Equitable Learning Environments for Low-Income Students - Feb 3rd, 2015 Join Dr. Paul Gorski, Associate Professor from New Century College, George Mason University, on March 5, from 1:00-4:00 p.m., in the MU Horizon... Read More POSTPONED UNTIL FALL TERM: Teaching at a Land Grant University: A Commitment to Local Knowledges, Dr. Adela C. Licona - Nov 11th, 2014 Exact date TBD.  The Center for Latino/a Studies and Engagement and the Difference, Power, and Discrimination Program present a... Read More "Race is not a Four-Letter Word": Exploring Whiteness, Racism, and Privilege in Education - Feb 20th, 2014 Thursday, February 20, 2014, 2 - 3:30 P.M. at Furman Hall 303. FREE Event. Refreshments served. The College of Education and the... Read More Intro to Queer Studies (QS/WGSS 299-011) Course Trailer - Feb 13th, 2014 A new course trailer has been posted to YouTube for Introduction to Queer Studies (QS/WGSS 299-011) at Oregon State University. Watch the Read More Related Events 13Apr2015 Sexual Violence against Indigenous Women in Guatemala During the 20th century and on into the 21st, a number of countries in Central and South America have witnessed concerted assaults on indigenous populations. Among the victims … 15Apr2015 Lonnie B. Harris Black Cultural Center Grand Opening The Students of Oregon State University and President Edward J. Ray invite you to join in the celebration of the … 16Apr2015 Human Rights Law and the Issue of Violence against Women Elizabeth Heineman, chair of the Department of History at the University of Iowa, specializes in modern German and European history and in the history of women, gender, and … 21Apr2015 Health Inequities Symposium: Cultivating Social Justice The Health Promotion Department of Student Health Services is presenting a health inequities symposium on April 21-22, 2015.  The focus will be on health inequities in the United … 21Apr2015 Rita Colwell… 22Apr2015 SEC GRAND OPENING! The Student Experience Center is the home to an assortment of student programs and departments, all differing in cause yet founded in the same illustrious groundwork of student …View the Entire Calendar About DPD History DPD Courses Proposing a DPD Course DPD Course Criteria and Student Learning Outcomes Teaching Resources Teaching Modules Writing for Change CTL DPD Seminars and Events DPD Academy Event Flashback Contact Information Difference, Power, and Discrimination Program 310 Waldo Hall Corvallis, OR 97331 Nana Osei-Kofi, Director Phone:  541-737-2824 Fax:     541-737-2812 Julie Howard, Admin. Support Phone:  541-737-2804 Contact Info Copyright ©  2015 Oregon State University Disclaimer
