Faculty Services - Faculty Resources - Guides at Texas A&M University
Faculty Services - Faculty Resources - Guides at Texas A&M University This is the "Faculty Services" page of the "Faculty Resources" guide. Alternate Page for Screenreader Users Skip to Page Navigation Skip to Page Content Chat/Questions Admin Sign In University Libraries » Guides » Faculty Resources Faculty Resources   Tags: resourceguide   Provides links to key library services, resources, and search tools for faculty research and course support. Last Updated: Sep 22, 2014 URL: http://guides.library.tamu.edu/faculty Print Guide RSS UpdatesEmail Alerts Faculty Services Faculty Services Print Page Search Text Search Type   Search:    This Guide All Guides LibCatMSL CatalogWebAll Research Guides Search     Welcome The University Libraries are committed to supporting the teaching and research needs of the Texas A&M Faculty.  This guide will help you discover many of the libraries' valuable services.   Please browse the links for more information. Comments (0)   Research Ask Us Research Guides Find your subject librarian Request a meeting with a subject librarian Get It For Me Recommend a purchase RefWorks EndNote   Authorship and Publishing Citation analysis and metrics Copyright information Open access publishing OAK Trust OAK Fund Office of Scholarly Communications University Writing Center   Teaching Library Instruction Services Place an item on reserve Media (films and screening rooms) Scholarship of Teaching and Learning   Ask Us AskUs JavaScript disabled or chat unavailable. Chat and Text services are currently unavailable. Chat Hours Email Us. Contact Info 5000 TAMU College Station, TX 77843 (979) 845-5741 Links: Website / Blog Profile & Guides Comments (0) Powered by Springshare; All rights reserved. Report a tech support issue. View this page in a format suitable for printers and screen-readers or mobile devices. Footer Navigation Giving to the Libraries Texas A&M University Employment Webmaster Legal Comments 979-845-5741 Site Map Accessibility Description   Loading... More Information   Loading... Close  
