Faculty News - Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning
Faculty News - Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning Texas A&M University College of Architecture College of Architecture College Website College Directory ITS Helpdesk My Email (Outlook Web Access) My Architecture Account College Intranet Departments Architecture Construction Science Landscape Architecture & Urban Planning Visualization Centers & Institutes CRS Center Center for Housing and Urban Development Hazard Reduction & Recovery Center Center for Health Systems & Design Center for Heritage Conservation Institute for Applied Creativity Institute for Sustainable Coastal Communities Outreach Colonias Program Texas Target Communities Texas Sustainable Coastal Initiative News ArchOne Newsletter College Calendar Facebook Twitter Texas A&M University Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning About us Academics Research & Teaching Service & Engagement People Prospective Students Gallery News & Events Administration Advisory Board Facilities Fact Sheets Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Certificates Courses Off Campus Studies Dual Degrees Schob Nature Preserve Faculty Research Student Works Journals Research Centers Community Outreach download application form Faculty Staff Former Students Student Organizations Administration Admissions Financing Education Scholarships & Fellowships Certificates Other Info Landscape Architecture Urban Planning Land & Property Development Study Abroad Service Learning Site Navigation About us News & Events Faculty News ArchONE Newsletters Fall Forum 2013 LAUP Lecture Series Design Week Schedule Team Rosters Open House Administration Advisory Board Facilities Fact Sheets Academics Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Change Major Graduate Admissions Admission Prerequisites Application Deadlines Required Application Materials Check List More Information Undergraduate BLA Faculty Admissions Curriculum Tuition and Fees BS-URPN Curriculum Courses Admissions Faculty Careers Student Resources Minor in Urban Planning Differential Tuition Graduate MLA Overview Admissions Curriculum Faculty Students Material Requirements Suggested Readings MUP Overview Program-Related Outcomes Curriculum Students MLPD Program Overview Why the MLPD at Texas A&M University? What do students learn? Curriculum Suggested Course Progression MLPD Core Courses MLPD Elective Courses Certificate Programs Dual Degree Options Texas A&M University Graduate Catalog Students Organizational Affiliations Current Student Profiles Former Students Admissions Admissions Process Admission Criteria Admission Deadlines Tuition & Fees Helpful Admissions Links Faculty contact URSC Faculty Admissions Curriculum Time to Degree Financial Support Resources External Review Certificates Environmental Hazard Management Facility Management Health Systems and Design Historic Preservation Sustainable Urbanism Transportation Planning Curriculum Degree Plan MUP Degree Plan MLA Degree Plan MARCH Degree Plan CVEN Degree Plan MPSA Degree Plan Student Projects Admissions Courses Off Campus Studies Dual Degrees Research & Teaching Schob Nature Preserve Design Construction Process Schob Scholars Program LAUP Mini-Grant Program 2014-15 Winning Proposals Faculty Research Student Works bla student work mla student work mlpd student work MUP Student Works Student Activities Student Projects Journals Research Centers Service & Engagement Community Outreach Texas Target Cities Program Distance education Outreach Academy download application form People Faculty Staff Former Students Student Organizations Administration Prospective Students Admissions Financing Education Scholarships & Fellowships Certificates Other Info Gallery Landscape Architecture BLA MLA Urban Planning MUP BSURPN Land & Property Development Study Abroad Service Learning About us News & Events Faculty News ArchONE Newsletters Fall Forum 2013 LAUP Lecture Series Design Week Schedule Team Rosters Open House Administration Advisory Board Facilities Fact Sheets Academics Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Undergraduate BLA BS-URPN Minor in Urban Planning Differential Tuition Graduate MLA MUP MLPD URSC Certificates Environmental Hazard Management Facility Management Health Systems and Design Historic Preservation Sustainable Urbanism Transportation Planning Courses Off Campus Studies Dual Degrees Research & Teaching Schob Nature Preserve Design Construction Process Schob Scholars Program Faculty Research Student Works bla student work mla student work mlpd student work MUP Student Works Journals Research Centers Service & Engagement Community Outreach Texas Target Cities Program Distance education Outreach Academy download application form People Faculty Staff Former Students Student Organizations Administration Prospective Students Admissions Financing Education Scholarships & Fellowships Certificates Other Info Gallery Landscape Architecture BLA MLA Urban Planning MUP BSURPN Land & Property Development Study Abroad Service Learning LAUP ? About us ? News & Events ? Faculty News Faculty News LAUP News & Events New Hires Transportation planning education at Texas A&M will be bolstered by the fall 2012 arrival of Wei Li, the Department of Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning’s newest faculty member. Li was working as a postdoctoral researcher at the University of California, Irvine where he earned a Ph.D. in planning, policy and design. He also holds a Master of Arts in Planning from the University of Waterloo in Ontario, Canada and a Bachelor of Business Administration from Renmin University in Beijing. His research interests include transportation planning, environmental and health impacts of transportation, urban green infrastructure, valuation of environmental resources and externalities, microeconomics, applied econometrics, geographical information systems and sustainable development. In his current research, Li is using subject survey and used global positioning systems to better understand how light rail transit infrastructure investments and the built environment impact travel behaviors and health.   News New dual and articulated programs Graduate and undergraduate students can maximize their career options by combining degrees in accelerated programs offered at the Texas A&M College of Architecture. The three-year graduate dual degree programs, offered by the departments of landscape architecture and urban planning, architecture and construction science, provide students an opportunity to combine a Master of Land and Property Development degree with graduate degrees in architecture, construction management or urban planning; earning two such degrees separately would take at least four years. Additionally, LAUP has partnered with the Mays Business School to offer a three-year dual degree combining MLPD and Master of Real Estate degrees. *** LAUP students earn prestigious fellowships, honored for service This fall, a former Master of Urban Planning student is traveling to Germany on a Robert Bosch Foundation Fellowship to study how Europe’s political, economic and cultural environment impact planning and sustainability. Nick Oyler ’12 will spend nine months in the foundation’s professional development program, a transatlantic initiative aimed at developing new generations of U.S. leaders with firsthand knowledge of Europe. *** Department head Ndubisi honored as ASLA fellow Honoring a 25-year career advancing the art and science of ecological design and planning as a nationally known scholar, educator, academic practitioner and administrator, Forster Ndubisi, head of Texas A&M’s Department of Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning, has been elevated to fellow of the American Society of Landscape Architects. “Ndubisi has forged a full and dedicated career that includes an unselfish excitement, each day, for the opportunity to impart the knowledge necessary in shaping the next generation of successful landscape architects,” said Margaret Robinson, president of the Texas ASLA chapter, in a nomination letter. He stands for excellence in combining administrative accomplishments with an impressive level of scholarship productivity, said Jorge Vanegas, dean of Texas A&M’s College of Architecture. “Under his leadership, the department has benefited from a renaissance of collegiality, respect and trust in pursuit of learning and teaching, research, creative work and engagement excellence,” said Vanegas. During his tenure as LAUP head, which began in 2004, its’ graduate and undergraduate landscape architecture programs have consistently been ranked among the top programs in the U.S. in annual rankings published by the Design Futures Council. In the most recent rankings, announced in December 2011, the Bachelor of Landscape Architecture degree program tied with two other universities as third-best in the nation, while the Master of Landscape Architecture program tied in eighth place, fifth among public universities. Among his numerous honors include the Outstanding Administrator Award from the Council of Educators in Landscape Architecture in 2011. *** Association of Former Students recognizes Varni’s research For research that has helped improve the lives of children with chronic diseases throughout the world, James Varni, a professor in the Department of Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning at Texas A&M, earned The Association of Former Students’ 2011 Distinguished Achievement Award for Research. Varni developed PedsQL, a quality of life measurement method used throughout the world, that can be performed by children as young as five with severe chronic conditions such as cerebral palsy and brain tumors. In a five-year period following his 2004 arrival at Texas A&M, Varni authored and coauthored 96 peer-reviewed articles published in scholarly journals and was principal investigator or co-investigator on competitive research grants totaling more than $15 million. “As a result of his stature in the field, he is constantly contacted by researchers from around the world, bringing further exposure to Texas A&M’s outstanding research enterprise,” said Ndubisi. “His contributions are exemplary and his work lays an important foundation for shaping the future of the department and its programs.” Varni’s areas of expertise also include conceptual models and cognitive behavior therapy interventions in pediatric chronic health conditions. He has conducted research and evaluation projects focusing on the effects of the built and natural environment on child, parent and staff outcomes as a basis for evidence-based architectural design for pediatric healthcare facilities. Varni earned a Ph.D. in Psychology from the University of California-Los Angeles in 1976, a Master of Arts in Psychology from the University of California-Los Angeles in 1974 and a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology from the University of California-Santa Barbara in 1972. A Fellow of the American Psychological Association, the Society of Behavioral Medicine and the Society of Pediatric Psychology, Varni has published more than 250 journal articles and book chapters in behavioral medicine and four books on children. He's also a recipient of the Significant Research Contributions Award from the American Psychological Association.  *** Li elected to CELA leadership post, honored for service at conference Ming-Han Li, associate professor of landscape architecture at Texas A&M, was elected to a leadership position and honored for his service in the Council of Educators in Landscape Architecture during the organization’s 2012 conference held last March at the University of Illinois. CELA advocates for landscape architecture programs, provides a forum for dialogue about landscape architectural education and fosters and disseminates landscape architectural scholarship. Li was chosen as CELA’s 2012-2014 vice president for research, a term that includes membership in the organization’s executive committee. He also received CELA’s Outstanding Communications Award, which recognizes landscape architecture educators who have coordinated abstract and paper reviews for CELA’s annual conferences since 2008. Li, who joined the Texas A&M faculty in 2003, is interested in stormwater management, bioretention, soil erosion control, streambank bioengineering and sustainable landscape technology. He earned two degrees at Texas A&M, a Ph.D. in Urban and Regional Science in 2002 and a Master of Landscape Architecture degree in 1998.   © 2015 College of Architecture, Texas A&M University. Contact Information | Accessibility | Site Policies
