Funded in 2005-06 | Office of the Dean for Graduate Education
Funded in 2005-06 | Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Search About ODGE Staff Organization (PDF) Current Ad-Hoc Committees Sponsored by ODGE 2015 Advisory Committee on Graduate Stipends Committee on Student Entrepreneurship (CSE) Graduate Admissions Team Student & Affiliates Health Insurance Advisory Committee Task Force on the Future of Graduate Education in the Context of MITx (TFGEM) Task Force on Graduate Student Professional Development (TFPRO) Working Group on International Student Support (WGISS) ODGE Participation Graduate Student Housing Working Group Services Strategic Plan One-page summary (PDF) Letter from the Dean (PDF) Supporting Educational Innovation and Excellence (PDF) Competitiveness in Graduate Funding (PDF) Administration and Policy (PDF) Diversity and Climate (PDF) Holistic Graduate Student Experience (PDF) Report to the President Grad Facts News & video Graduate Policies & Procedures Admissions & Registration Student status Regular student International student Listener Special student Part time status Nonresident status Visiting student Exchange scholar Transfer student Institute research staff Registration requirements Status of registration Retention of student status Medical report requirement Credit Academic terms Tuition and fees Changes in registration Add/drop Medical withdrawal Medical withdrawal: policy Medical withdrawal: procedure Personal leave Childbirth accommodation (“Maternity leave”) Leave for U.S. National Service Withdrawal, readmission Denials of further registration Registration holds Cross registration Harvard University Wellesley College Partnerships & exchanges Graduate Consortium in Women’s Studies MIT International Science and Technology Initiatives Exchange Scholar Program Cambridge-MIT Institute Harvard-MIT Health Sciences and Technology Other interdisciplinary study and research Academic performance Graduate academic standards Grades Cumulative rating Subject credits and designations Grade reports and transcripts Advanced Degrees Master’s degree Master of Science Master of Engineering Master of Architecture Master in City Planning Master of Business Administration Master of Finance Simultaneous registration for two master’s degrees Simultaneous award of bachelor’s and master’s degrees Engineer’s degree Doctoral degree Minor Program Language proficiency Interdepartmental programs Interdepartmental doctoral degree program Interdepartmental engineer’s degree program Interdepartmental master’s degree program Thesis Joint theses Restrictions on thesis publication Patent protection Government restrictions Privacy and security Thesis research in absentia Nonresident doctoral thesis research status Preparation of graduate theses Copyright Intellectual property policy Thesis hold Degrees offered Award of degrees Diploma format Financial Assistance Awards Applying Accepting RA/TA appointments Instructor-G and teaching assistants Research assistants Draper Fellows Terms of appointment Tuition and stipend payments Termination Registration Graduate resident tutors Other employment International students Job listings Conflict of interest, commitment Loans Faculty Oversight Departmental committees Committee on Graduate Programs Graduate officers Graduate administrators Petitions Roles & Relationships Roles Student and faculty Department Institute Appointments to teaching and research staffs Student leadership Academic integrity Professional & personal development Graduate Personal Support (GPS) Other resources Career planning Professional development video portal (PRO-DEPOT) Path of Professorship 2014 Program Application 2012 Photo Gallery Teaching at MIT Writing Student Snapshots Student finances Loans Fellowships External fellowships Fellowships for internationals Presidential Graduate Fellowship Program ODGE Fellowships ODGE Awards Study abroad grants Sample fellowship budget Other resources Dental Coverage MIT PPO Value Plan Summary MIT Plan Frequently Asked Questions DeltaCare Plan & PPO Plus Premier Plan Summary Plan comparison RA & TA appointments Support for activities & community Taxes Tuition & fees Get involved with community Committed to Caring C2C Nomination Form John Belcher Harry Lee Brent Ryan Kay Tye Fund for Graduate Community Graduate Community Fellows Current Fellow positions Request a new Fellow position Graduate Student Life Grants Follow the guidelines Write your proposal Stay in touch Market your events Report on progress Sample budget Check other resources Funded projects Model programs Ongoing Funded in 2013-14 Funded in 2012-13 Funded in 2011-12 Funded in 2010-11 Funded in 2009-10 Funded in 2008-09 Funded in 2007-08 Funded in 2006-07 Funded in 2005-06 Funded in 2004-05 Funded in 2003-04 Funded in 2002-03 Power Lunch Programs and Resources for Women Celebration of graduate women Resources for grad families Add the “Grad Friendly” logo to your event Undergraduate outreach MIT Summer Research Program Application Qualifications Frequently Asked Questions Alumni News 2014 MRSP Interns Mayela Aldaz Sara Arussy Rebecca Betances Gerardo Bledt Keeisi Caballero Aaron Castellanos Tzu-Yu Chao Steven Chavez Angela Chen Darwin Cordovilla Gustavo Del Aguila II Ilyssa Evans Khalil Hill Michael Ising Mina Khan Everlyne Kimani Grace Lim Allison Martinez-Arocho Sirak Mekonen Elizabeth Melton Andrew Mendez Daryl Painton Donnell Pinder Ángel Placeres Erick Romo-Mendoza Aura Salazar Jose Salcedo Perez Samalis Santini Kelvin Smith Nicole Sonnert Michael Statt Leila Terrab Thibault Twahirwa Elias Valdivia Christian Vazquez 2013 MSRP Interns Jose L. Acevedo Mayela Aldaz North Asmare Elizabeth Berrigan Jacquelyn Boudle Chanell Boyd Julian Brathwaite Darwin Cordovilla Kristin Dettmers Venisa Dodi Keiron Durant Daniela Espinosa Roberto Falcon Sebastian Gomez Kenneth Gutierrez Edward Guzman Julie Hofstra Erenis Lemus Alexander Limia Alyssa Loving Florise Luc Papakyriakou Marc Nathan Martin Chelsea McConnell Sirak Mekonen Andrew Mendez Marco Messina Rudo Mudzi Yves Nazon II Kemi Oyewole Kristina Pardo Monica Perez Radamés Ríos-González Jesus Salas Angel J. Santiago-Lopez Adriana Santiago-Miranda Michelle Shu Kate Sundheim Bethel Tarekegne Miguel Twahirwa Luis Valle Katrina Williamson 2012 MSRP Interns Manuel Ahumada Michael Alemayehu Ronald Alexander Luis Alvarez Victor Calderon Arrivillaga Angel Asante Edward Bello Sarah Cameron Bernardo Cervantes Grace Christenbery Laura López Cruz Eshan Dahal Darrel Deo Ohiremen Dibua Gilles Dongmo-Momo Daniel Drew Mauricio Flores Brittany Grassbaugh Kenneth Gutierrez Edward Guzman La’Toya James Nicole Love Choolwe Mandona Adan Medina Priya Moni Moises Montalvo Lafontaine Arnaldo Negron Marty Adesuwa Nosakhare Irving Olmedo Ramiro Piñón Alex M. Suarez Bethel Tarekegne Andira Ramos Katarina Sirka Soraya Terrab Miguel de la Salle R. Twahirwa Ken Wilson Asia Wyatt CONVERGE Conferences Resources Committed to Caring C2C Nomination Form John Belcher Harry Lee Brent Ryan Kay Tye Fund for Graduate Community Graduate Community Fellows Current Fellow positions Request a new Fellow position Graduate Student Life Grants Follow the guidelines Write your proposal Stay in touch Market your events Report on progress Sample budget Check other resources Funded projects Model programs Ongoing Funded in 2013-14 Funded in 2012-13 Funded in 2011-12 Funded in 2010-11 Funded in 2009-10 Funded in 2008-09 Funded in 2007-08 Funded in 2006-07 Funded in 2005-06 Funded in 2004-05 Funded in 2003-04 Funded in 2002-03 Power Lunch Programs and Resources for Women Celebration of graduate women Resources for grad families Add the “Grad Friendly” logo to your event Funded in 2005-06 In the fifth round of Graduate Student Life Grants, Dean Ike Colbert funded 18 proposals out of the total 28 submitted to the Graduate Students Office. To date, since this program was introduced in 2002, the Dean’s selection panel has reviewed 150 proposals and funded 83 of those. The Dean continues to view this process as an effective mechanism for gathering fresh, creative ideas and as instrumental in shaping the graduate community of the future. These grants for enhancing graduate community continue to reflect consistent, broad themes; they are: Introduce new departmental efforts Focus on bringing people together in a social context Integrate academic and social aspects of graduate life Improve communications and outreach Acknowledge creative expression through the arts Serves as models for community building Focus on specific constituencies   RFP5-3 CMS Media Mixers Submitted by a team of graduate students Organize a series of lectures and informal talks, social video game competitions, and screenings of student work to generate formal and informal opportunities for collaboration and discussion among Comparative Media Studies and other graduate departments. Why? Promote awareness and understanding of student work in comparative media studies.   RFP5-5 Community Cooking Submitted by a graduate student Provide a social medium for interaction within the MIT community; promote healthy eating and cooking habits; and increase cultural awareness through preparing dishes traditional to a unique culture. Why? Bring students together by cooking, teaching and learning in “culinary encounters.”   RFP5-7 Cooking Baklava and Taste of Mediterranean Foods Submitted by a graduate student Prepare and share a traditional Mediterranean dish as a springboard for socializing and informing a group of students about an ages old dessert common to countries of the Fertile Crescent. Why? Bring students together to learn, eat, and enjoy.   RFP5-8 Day Ski Trips Submitted by MIT Snowriders Subsidize ski trips for departmental student groups during the 2005-06 ski season. This is an outgrowth of the Community Bus Trip Program, which was recognized as the “Graduate Program of the Year” from the Student Activities Office Why? Build community for departmental graduate student groups.   RFP5-9 HST Olympics Submitted by a graduate administrator Offer students and faculty the chance to get together for nothing but fun, teaming up and vying against one another in competitions including sports, brainier games such as quizzes and chess, and other “silly” games. Why? Forge relationships and foster community among HST students and faculty.   RFP5-10 Diversity: Peer2Peer Submitted by the LBGT Coordinator, Student Life Programs Address gender, race, and sexuality issues, and the need to learn, through peer-to-peer education including training of community educators and community discussion forums. Why? Reinforce a message of tolerance in the mindset of the MIT community.   RFP5-11 DUSP Alumni of Color Dinner Series Submitted by a graduate student representing the DUSP Student Council and Student of Color Committee Bring together alumni and current students in recognition of MIT’s contribution to the fields of urban design, housing development, and environmental justice through a speaker series and increased visibility for DUSP’s academic and social activities. Why? Build on existing programs for strengthening dialogue within the department through outreach to alumni.   RFP5-12 Fenway House Creative Arts Society Submitted by a team of graduate students Promote identity of a graduate residential community of the arts by building stronger community within the house and developing the concept of a creative arts house. Why? Support a pilot program for developing the identity of this unique graduate residence.   RFP5-14 HST/BEP Student Cohort Development Submitted by a team of graduate students Address the problem of program fragmentation (students rarely see one another) and build an on campus and lifelong cohort for students in, and ultimately alumni of, the Biomedical Enterprise Program. Why? Support one of several initiatives proposed by this team for student cohort development.   RFP5-15 HST Knitting Circle (with a public service twist) Submitted by a graduate administrator Begin and sustain a social activity for HST students around learning to knit, knitting together, and creating items for distribution to social service agencies. Why? Create community by coming together around a public service undertaking.   RFP5-16 HST Women’s Group Submitted by a graduate administrator Support the activities of a fledgling support and social group for HST’s women students. Why? Provide more structure for evolving program to support women graduate students.   RFP5-17 Manhattan Group: Distributing Martin Submitted by the graduate student activities group, “The Manhattan Group” Support first guest artist of The Manhattan Group, which invites individuals to MIT who use artistic practice as a tool for teaching, learning, and distribution of critical information. Why? Provide opportunity for students to work with one another and the artist while engaging issues of race relations, bio-ethics, and performance art.   RFP5-18 MIT Dance-Off Submitted by graduate students on behalf of the Sidney-Pacific Graduate Community Organize event open to all graduate students at the beginning of the winter season, a dance-off that will allow people to learn how to dance, meet new people in a dynamic social environment, showcase their new talent to others, and have fun. Why? Bring together members of the MIT community including dormitory residents and off campus students.   RFP5-19 MIT International Review Submitted by a graduate student for MIT International Review Editorial Board Encourage campus discourse on international affairs by producing a journal called the MIT International Review . Why? Provide a medium through which members of the MIT community can exchange their views on world events and learn about new research, ideas, and developments in this field.   RFP5-22 Piloting the “New” MIT Museum and Public Engagement with Science Submitted by a staff member on behalf of the MIT Museum Support events planned to re-conceive the Museum as a physical and virtual gateway to MIT’s research and innovation for the wider community. Why? Continue to encourage graduate students to become active participants in the Museum’s planning and programs.   RFP5-23 Place, Technology, and Space II: Connecting the School of Architecture and Planning and Beyond Submitted by a team of graduate students Sponsor events in and among departments in the School of Architecture and Planning with the goal of enhancing community, for example, interdepartmental research/social events, the MITunuseless competition, the creativity cauldron, and “green” trips to Boston. Why? Continue support for the integration of community building activities within the School of Architecture and Planning and effective planning for the future.   RFP5-25 The Robotics Initiative Submitted by a graduate student representing the Robotics Initiative Bring together graduate students with shared interest in forming a more cohesive community of robotic scientists through events such as RoboNight@TheMIT Museum, the Robotics Tour, and the Robotic Science Funding Seminar. Why? Foster interdisciplinary collaboration among members of the MIT robotics community.   RFP5-28 Zero-Waste Events Submitted by student teams representing the Technology and Policy Student Society and Students for Global Sustainability Design a social event that will encourage students to think about sustainability, making use of “waste free” or reusable products and offering door prizes of recyclable materials. Why? Build community of students interested in sustainability issues. Graduate Student Council International Students Office Office of the Dean for Graduate Education | Massachusetts Institute of Technology | 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Room 3-138, Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 T (617) 253-4860 | F (617) 253-5620 | Contact: odge@mit.edu
