Funded in 2004-05 | Office of the Dean for Graduate Education
Funded in 2004-05 | Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Search About ODGE Staff Organization (PDF) Current Ad-Hoc Committees Sponsored by ODGE 2015 Advisory Committee on Graduate Stipends Committee on Student Entrepreneurship (CSE) Graduate Admissions Team Student & Affiliates Health Insurance Advisory Committee Task Force on the Future of Graduate Education in the Context of MITx (TFGEM) Task Force on Graduate Student Professional Development (TFPRO) Working Group on International Student Support (WGISS) ODGE Participation Graduate Student Housing Working Group Services Strategic Plan One-page summary (PDF) Letter from the Dean (PDF) Supporting Educational Innovation and Excellence (PDF) Competitiveness in Graduate Funding (PDF) Administration and Policy (PDF) Diversity and Climate (PDF) Holistic Graduate Student Experience (PDF) Report to the President Grad Facts News & video Graduate Policies & Procedures Admissions & Registration Student status Regular student International student Listener Special student Part time status Nonresident status Visiting student Exchange scholar Transfer student Institute research staff Registration requirements Status of registration Retention of student status Medical report requirement Credit Academic terms Tuition and fees Changes in registration Add/drop Medical withdrawal Medical withdrawal: policy Medical withdrawal: procedure Personal leave Childbirth accommodation (“Maternity leave”) Leave for U.S. National Service Withdrawal, readmission Denials of further registration Registration holds Cross registration Harvard University Wellesley College Partnerships & exchanges Graduate Consortium in Women’s Studies MIT International Science and Technology Initiatives Exchange Scholar Program Cambridge-MIT Institute Harvard-MIT Health Sciences and Technology Other interdisciplinary study and research Academic performance Graduate academic standards Grades Cumulative rating Subject credits and designations Grade reports and transcripts Advanced Degrees Master’s degree Master of Science Master of Engineering Master of Architecture Master in City Planning Master of Business Administration Master of Finance Simultaneous registration for two master’s degrees Simultaneous award of bachelor’s and master’s degrees Engineer’s degree Doctoral degree Minor Program Language proficiency Interdepartmental programs Interdepartmental doctoral degree program Interdepartmental engineer’s degree program Interdepartmental master’s degree program Thesis Joint theses Restrictions on thesis publication Patent protection Government restrictions Privacy and security Thesis research in absentia Nonresident doctoral thesis research status Preparation of graduate theses Copyright Intellectual property policy Thesis hold Degrees offered Award of degrees Diploma format Financial Assistance Awards Applying Accepting RA/TA appointments Instructor-G and teaching assistants Research assistants Draper Fellows Terms of appointment Tuition and stipend payments Termination Registration Graduate resident tutors Other employment International students Job listings Conflict of interest, commitment Loans Faculty Oversight Departmental committees Committee on Graduate Programs Graduate officers Graduate administrators Petitions Roles & Relationships Roles Student and faculty Department Institute Appointments to teaching and research staffs Student leadership Academic integrity Professional & personal development Graduate Personal Support (GPS) Other resources Career planning Professional development video portal (PRO-DEPOT) Path of Professorship 2014 Program Application 2012 Photo Gallery Teaching at MIT Writing Student Snapshots Student finances Loans Fellowships External fellowships Fellowships for internationals Presidential Graduate Fellowship Program ODGE Fellowships ODGE Awards Study abroad grants Sample fellowship budget Other resources Dental Coverage MIT PPO Value Plan Summary MIT Plan Frequently Asked Questions DeltaCare Plan & PPO Plus Premier Plan Summary Plan comparison RA & TA appointments Support for activities & community Taxes Tuition & fees Get involved with community Committed to Caring C2C Nomination Form John Belcher Harry Lee Brent Ryan Kay Tye Fund for Graduate Community Graduate Community Fellows Current Fellow positions Request a new Fellow position Graduate Student Life Grants Follow the guidelines Write your proposal Stay in touch Market your events Report on progress Sample budget Check other resources Funded projects Model programs Ongoing Funded in 2013-14 Funded in 2012-13 Funded in 2011-12 Funded in 2010-11 Funded in 2009-10 Funded in 2008-09 Funded in 2007-08 Funded in 2006-07 Funded in 2005-06 Funded in 2004-05 Funded in 2003-04 Funded in 2002-03 Power Lunch Programs and Resources for Women Celebration of graduate women Resources for grad families Add the “Grad Friendly” logo to your event Undergraduate outreach MIT Summer Research Program Application Qualifications Frequently Asked Questions Alumni News 2014 MRSP Interns Mayela Aldaz Sara Arussy Rebecca Betances Gerardo Bledt Keeisi Caballero Aaron Castellanos Tzu-Yu Chao Steven Chavez Angela Chen Darwin Cordovilla Gustavo Del Aguila II Ilyssa Evans Khalil Hill Michael Ising Mina Khan Everlyne Kimani Grace Lim Allison Martinez-Arocho Sirak Mekonen Elizabeth Melton Andrew Mendez Daryl Painton Donnell Pinder Ángel Placeres Erick Romo-Mendoza Aura Salazar Jose Salcedo Perez Samalis Santini Kelvin Smith Nicole Sonnert Michael Statt Leila Terrab Thibault Twahirwa Elias Valdivia Christian Vazquez 2013 MSRP Interns Jose L. Acevedo Mayela Aldaz North Asmare Elizabeth Berrigan Jacquelyn Boudle Chanell Boyd Julian Brathwaite Darwin Cordovilla Kristin Dettmers Venisa Dodi Keiron Durant Daniela Espinosa Roberto Falcon Sebastian Gomez Kenneth Gutierrez Edward Guzman Julie Hofstra Erenis Lemus Alexander Limia Alyssa Loving Florise Luc Papakyriakou Marc Nathan Martin Chelsea McConnell Sirak Mekonen Andrew Mendez Marco Messina Rudo Mudzi Yves Nazon II Kemi Oyewole Kristina Pardo Monica Perez Radamés Ríos-González Jesus Salas Angel J. Santiago-Lopez Adriana Santiago-Miranda Michelle Shu Kate Sundheim Bethel Tarekegne Miguel Twahirwa Luis Valle Katrina Williamson 2012 MSRP Interns Manuel Ahumada Michael Alemayehu Ronald Alexander Luis Alvarez Victor Calderon Arrivillaga Angel Asante Edward Bello Sarah Cameron Bernardo Cervantes Grace Christenbery Laura López Cruz Eshan Dahal Darrel Deo Ohiremen Dibua Gilles Dongmo-Momo Daniel Drew Mauricio Flores Brittany Grassbaugh Kenneth Gutierrez Edward Guzman La’Toya James Nicole Love Choolwe Mandona Adan Medina Priya Moni Moises Montalvo Lafontaine Arnaldo Negron Marty Adesuwa Nosakhare Irving Olmedo Ramiro Piñón Alex M. Suarez Bethel Tarekegne Andira Ramos Katarina Sirka Soraya Terrab Miguel de la Salle R. Twahirwa Ken Wilson Asia Wyatt CONVERGE Conferences Resources Committed to Caring C2C Nomination Form John Belcher Harry Lee Brent Ryan Kay Tye Fund for Graduate Community Graduate Community Fellows Current Fellow positions Request a new Fellow position Graduate Student Life Grants Follow the guidelines Write your proposal Stay in touch Market your events Report on progress Sample budget Check other resources Funded projects Model programs Ongoing Funded in 2013-14 Funded in 2012-13 Funded in 2011-12 Funded in 2010-11 Funded in 2009-10 Funded in 2008-09 Funded in 2007-08 Funded in 2006-07 Funded in 2005-06 Funded in 2004-05 Funded in 2003-04 Funded in 2002-03 Power Lunch Programs and Resources for Women Celebration of graduate women Resources for grad families Add the “Grad Friendly” logo to your event Funded in 2004-05 In the fourth round of Graduate Student Life Grants, Dean Ike Colbert funded 18 proposals out of the total 28 submitted to the Graduate Students Office. They have been organized below by theme. The Dean continues to view this process as an effective mechanism for gathering fresh, creative ideas and instrumental in shaping the graduate community of the future. Introducing new departmental efforts Focus on bringing people together in a social context Integrate academic and social aspects of graduate life Improve communications and outreach Acknowledge creative expression through the arts Serve as models for community building Focus on specific constituencies (for example, students with families, off campus students, international students)   Introducing new departmental efforts RFP4-9 EAPS Mug Cooperative Submitted by graduate student Purchase a set of reusable ceramic mugs for shared use in main department lounge, supporting participation in the departmental tea/coffee hour as well as local conservation efforts. Why? Support simple and thoughtful request for enhancing the social environment within the department.   RFP4-12 Food for Thought Submitted by graduate student Establish a series of food “tastings” held in the math department, bringing together members from pure and applied branches to enjoy and discuss unusual and variant foods. Why? Enhance the sense of community by offering “fodder” for discussion and learning.   RFP4-24 Sloan PhD Student Handbook Submitted by graduate student Create a handbook that addresses the issues specific to students at Sloan that are not already addressed by other campus resources. Why? Encourage communication and foster a greater sense of community among doctoral students within the department.   Focus on bringing people together in a social context RFP4-5 Demanstyle, Cooking the Healthy Way Submitted by student/spouse team Present a series of three two-hour courses in one of the student residences on how to prepare healthy yet easy meals, and monthly showcase presentations in a Lobby 10 information booth. Why? Encourage healthy life styles for busy graduate students. “…eat healthy, cook healthy, live healthy without much time and effort.”   RDP4-10 Fierce Forever 5 Submitted by graduate student Support graduate student participation in a festive drag workshop and show. Why? Celebrate yet another aspect of the MIT community’s diversity.   RFP4-25 Snowriders@MIT Submitted by graduate student Support, in part, a sustainable ski and snowboard community for graduate students, targeting families, off campus students, and never-before skiers. Why? Facilitate opportunities for students and their families to appreciate a unique aspect of New England.   RFP4-26 Traveling Grad Shabbat Dinners Submitted by graduate student Host a series of dinners that focus on teaching Jewish Shabbat observances, while encouraging discussion and dialogue about rituals of different faiths. Why? Celebrate yet another aspect of the MIT community’s diversity.   Integrate academic and social aspects of graduate life RFP4-21 “Optimizing” the “OR” Community Submitted by administrative officer Create mechanisms for building community with students sharing common interest in the fields of operations research through lunch with students and co-directors, a pilot program for women, support for admitted students, and a weekly student luncheon series. Why? Support departmental efforts to improve graduate community.   RFP4-1 APH(I)D: Architecture PhDs Building Identity Submitted by a team of PhD students Design and implement a series of informal once-a-month colloquia featuring PhD student presentations from the Department of Architecture and the Institute more broadly. Why? Encourage a coherent graduate community of PhD students by providing opportunities to solicit peer feedback on projects and dissertation work as well as discuss the unique challenges in pursuing an architectural degree at MIT.   Improve communications and outreach RFP4-11 Focus Groups on Advisor-Advisee Relationships Submitted by the Academics, Research, and Careers Committee of the Graduate Student Council Develop well informed and practical recommendations for improving advisor/advisee relationships at MIT through discussions involving graduate students, faculty members, and graduate administrators. Why? Address a longstanding need for improving the quality of graduate advising.   RFP4-13 Grad Student/Alumni Networking Events Submitted by MIT Alumni Club of Boston Plan and implement a series of activities that serve graduate students and graduate alumni through networking events, business socials, a seminar series, and summer barbeque. Why? Increase graduate student (and graduate alumni) involvement in the club.   RFP4-27 Women’s Leadership Conference Submitted by the MIT Alumni Association Host a first ever women’s leadership conference, bringing together alumnae and students for a celebration and exploration of MIT women as leaders and innovators. Why? Encourage efforts to serve students not simply as “pre alumni” but as integral part of mission to connect alumni with the Institute.   RFP4-3 Backpack to Briefcase Seminar Submitted by MIT Alumni Association staff Sponsor a seminar to prepare students for transition from MIT to the work force while emphasizing the support network that exists throughout the MIT community and Alumni Association. Why? Serves students not just as “pre alumni” but as integral part of mission to connect alumni with the Institute.   Acknowledge creative expression through the arts RFP4-7 Design Competition for Un-Useless Things Submitted by graduate student Introduce and manage a design competition based on Chindogu, the Japanese Art of Invention, that entails creating inventions that do solve a particular problem but also create new ones! Why? Provide intriguing context for social connections, good fun, and technical challenge among design groups.   Serve as models for community building RFP4-15 Holiday Festival Submitted by graduate students on behalf of Sidney-Pacific graduate community Organize a holiday event open to all MIT graduate students at the beginning of the holiday season, featuring an arts and crafts sale with local artists, live music, and international holiday food. Why? Share holiday traditions and spread the holiday spirit, especially for members of the international community.   RFP4-20 An Online Plaza Submitted by graduate students on behalf of student council in the Department of Urban Studies and Planning Design a new community web site that builds on the success of DUSP’s Plaza web portal, creating a more dynamic forum and tool linking students from across the Institute and strengthening professional and academic alliances. Why? Enhance already successful online services that offer students across departments a community bulletin board, job posting arena, and directory.   RFP4-4 Building Community in the Engineering Systems Division Submitted by PhD student Create and sustain an intellectual and social community across the interdisciplinary division (400 graduate students, 50 faculty) through mechanisms such as a student research conference and poster sessions, picnics, and barbecues. Why? Provide opportunities to build social and intellectual community in newly integrated division.   Focus on specific constituencies RFP4-24 Sloan PhD Student Handbook Submitted by graduate student Create a handbook that addresses the issues specific to students at Sloan that are not already addressed by other campus resources. Why? Encourage communication and foster a greater sense of community among doctoral students within the department.   RFP4-28 World Reading for World Students Submitted by the MIT Libraries graduate Student Users Group Establish a seed collection of foreign language literature for recreational reading, a pilot project that will inform requests for permanent funding for a formal library collection of world literature. Why? Offer opportunities for “pleasure reading” for graduate students whose native language is not English. Graduate Student Council International Students Office Office of the Dean for Graduate Education | Massachusetts Institute of Technology | 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Room 3-138, Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 T (617) 253-4860 | F (617) 253-5620 | Contact: odge@mit.edu
