Funded in 2003-04 | Office of the Dean for Graduate Education
Funded in 2003-04 | Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Search About ODGE Staff Organization (PDF) Current Ad-Hoc Committees Sponsored by ODGE 2015 Advisory Committee on Graduate Stipends Committee on Student Entrepreneurship (CSE) Graduate Admissions Team Student & Affiliates Health Insurance Advisory Committee Task Force on the Future of Graduate Education in the Context of MITx (TFGEM) Task Force on Graduate Student Professional Development (TFPRO) Working Group on International Student Support (WGISS) ODGE Participation Graduate Student Housing Working Group Services Strategic Plan One-page summary (PDF) Letter from the Dean (PDF) Supporting Educational Innovation and Excellence (PDF) Competitiveness in Graduate Funding (PDF) Administration and Policy (PDF) Diversity and Climate (PDF) Holistic Graduate Student Experience (PDF) Report to the President Grad Facts News & video Graduate Policies & Procedures Admissions & Registration Student status Regular student International student Listener Special student Part time status Nonresident status Visiting student Exchange scholar Transfer student Institute research staff Registration requirements Status of registration Retention of student status Medical report requirement Credit Academic terms Tuition and fees Changes in registration Add/drop Medical withdrawal Medical withdrawal: policy Medical withdrawal: procedure Personal leave Childbirth accommodation (“Maternity leave”) Leave for U.S. National Service Withdrawal, readmission Denials of further registration Registration holds Cross registration Harvard University Wellesley College Partnerships & exchanges Graduate Consortium in Women’s Studies MIT International Science and Technology Initiatives Exchange Scholar Program Cambridge-MIT Institute Harvard-MIT Health Sciences and Technology Other interdisciplinary study and research Academic performance Graduate academic standards Grades Cumulative rating Subject credits and designations Grade reports and transcripts Advanced Degrees Master’s degree Master of Science Master of Engineering Master of Architecture Master in City Planning Master of Business Administration Master of Finance Simultaneous registration for two master’s degrees Simultaneous award of bachelor’s and master’s degrees Engineer’s degree Doctoral degree Minor Program Language proficiency Interdepartmental programs Interdepartmental doctoral degree program Interdepartmental engineer’s degree program Interdepartmental master’s degree program Thesis Joint theses Restrictions on thesis publication Patent protection Government restrictions Privacy and security Thesis research in absentia Nonresident doctoral thesis research status Preparation of graduate theses Copyright Intellectual property policy Thesis hold Degrees offered Award of degrees Diploma format Financial Assistance Awards Applying Accepting RA/TA appointments Instructor-G and teaching assistants Research assistants Draper Fellows Terms of appointment Tuition and stipend payments Termination Registration Graduate resident tutors Other employment International students Job listings Conflict of interest, commitment Loans Faculty Oversight Departmental committees Committee on Graduate Programs Graduate officers Graduate administrators Petitions Roles & Relationships Roles Student and faculty Department Institute Appointments to teaching and research staffs Student leadership Academic integrity Professional & personal development Graduate Personal Support (GPS) Other resources Career planning Professional development video portal (PRO-DEPOT) Path of Professorship 2014 Program Application 2012 Photo Gallery Teaching at MIT Writing Student Snapshots Student finances Loans Fellowships External fellowships Fellowships for internationals Presidential Graduate Fellowship Program ODGE Fellowships ODGE Awards Study abroad grants Sample fellowship budget Other resources Dental Coverage MIT PPO Value Plan Summary MIT Plan Frequently Asked Questions DeltaCare Plan & PPO Plus Premier Plan Summary Plan comparison RA & TA appointments Support for activities & community Taxes Tuition & fees Get involved with community Committed to Caring C2C Nomination Form John Belcher Harry Lee Brent Ryan Kay Tye Fund for Graduate Community Graduate Community Fellows Current Fellow positions Request a new Fellow position Graduate Student Life Grants Follow the guidelines Write your proposal Stay in touch Market your events Report on progress Sample budget Check other resources Funded projects Model programs Ongoing Funded in 2013-14 Funded in 2012-13 Funded in 2011-12 Funded in 2010-11 Funded in 2009-10 Funded in 2008-09 Funded in 2007-08 Funded in 2006-07 Funded in 2005-06 Funded in 2004-05 Funded in 2003-04 Funded in 2002-03 Power Lunch Programs and Resources for Women Celebration of graduate women Resources for grad families Add the “Grad Friendly” logo to your event Undergraduate outreach MIT Summer Research Program Application Qualifications Frequently Asked Questions Alumni News 2014 MRSP Interns Mayela Aldaz Sara Arussy Rebecca Betances Gerardo Bledt Keeisi Caballero Aaron Castellanos Tzu-Yu Chao Steven Chavez Angela Chen Darwin Cordovilla Gustavo Del Aguila II Ilyssa Evans Khalil Hill Michael Ising Mina Khan Everlyne Kimani Grace Lim Allison Martinez-Arocho Sirak Mekonen Elizabeth Melton Andrew Mendez Daryl Painton Donnell Pinder Ángel Placeres Erick Romo-Mendoza Aura Salazar Jose Salcedo Perez Samalis Santini Kelvin Smith Nicole Sonnert Michael Statt Leila Terrab Thibault Twahirwa Elias Valdivia Christian Vazquez 2013 MSRP Interns Jose L. Acevedo Mayela Aldaz North Asmare Elizabeth Berrigan Jacquelyn Boudle Chanell Boyd Julian Brathwaite Darwin Cordovilla Kristin Dettmers Venisa Dodi Keiron Durant Daniela Espinosa Roberto Falcon Sebastian Gomez Kenneth Gutierrez Edward Guzman Julie Hofstra Erenis Lemus Alexander Limia Alyssa Loving Florise Luc Papakyriakou Marc Nathan Martin Chelsea McConnell Sirak Mekonen Andrew Mendez Marco Messina Rudo Mudzi Yves Nazon II Kemi Oyewole Kristina Pardo Monica Perez Radamés Ríos-González Jesus Salas Angel J. Santiago-Lopez Adriana Santiago-Miranda Michelle Shu Kate Sundheim Bethel Tarekegne Miguel Twahirwa Luis Valle Katrina Williamson 2012 MSRP Interns Manuel Ahumada Michael Alemayehu Ronald Alexander Luis Alvarez Victor Calderon Arrivillaga Angel Asante Edward Bello Sarah Cameron Bernardo Cervantes Grace Christenbery Laura López Cruz Eshan Dahal Darrel Deo Ohiremen Dibua Gilles Dongmo-Momo Daniel Drew Mauricio Flores Brittany Grassbaugh Kenneth Gutierrez Edward Guzman La’Toya James Nicole Love Choolwe Mandona Adan Medina Priya Moni Moises Montalvo Lafontaine Arnaldo Negron Marty Adesuwa Nosakhare Irving Olmedo Ramiro Piñón Alex M. Suarez Bethel Tarekegne Andira Ramos Katarina Sirka Soraya Terrab Miguel de la Salle R. Twahirwa Ken Wilson Asia Wyatt CONVERGE Conferences Resources Committed to Caring C2C Nomination Form John Belcher Harry Lee Brent Ryan Kay Tye Fund for Graduate Community Graduate Community Fellows Current Fellow positions Request a new Fellow position Graduate Student Life Grants Follow the guidelines Write your proposal Stay in touch Market your events Report on progress Sample budget Check other resources Funded projects Model programs Ongoing Funded in 2013-14 Funded in 2012-13 Funded in 2011-12 Funded in 2010-11 Funded in 2009-10 Funded in 2008-09 Funded in 2007-08 Funded in 2006-07 Funded in 2005-06 Funded in 2004-05 Funded in 2003-04 Funded in 2002-03 Power Lunch Programs and Resources for Women Celebration of graduate women Resources for grad families Add the “Grad Friendly” logo to your event Funded in 2003-04 In the third round of Graduate Student Life Grants, Dean Ike Colbert funded 23 proposals out of the total 34 submitted to the Graduate Students Office. Totalling $96,300, these grants address building graduate community at MIT in a variety of ways. Dean Colbert and the selection panel eagerly look forward to working with the authors to implement this second year of proposals. If you have any questions about the current status of these proposals, please contact gslg [at] mit.edu.   RFP3-1 Active Bystanders Program ($2,000) Develop support materials to stimulate interest in and provide training for “looking out for one another” through the Active Bystanders Program. Why? Provides outreach to students seeking skills training as active bystanders.   RFP3-2 Atomistic Modeling and Simulation Seminar ($3,000) Bring together graduate students with shared interests to form a more cohesive community of atomistic modelers. Why? Improves communication and fosters community among students and faculty through seminars designed to offer intellectual and social content.   RFP3-5 BabyNet ($1,000) Support new initiative that encourages mutual support through child-centered programming, playgroups, and a babysitting exchange among graduate student families, both on and off campus. Why? Offers support for underserved constituency, graduate students with families.   RFP3-6 Babysitting@MIT ($3,000) Provide child care to students and their families so that they might attend meetings of organizations which have a direct impact on graduate student families. Why? Offers the opportunity to connect with other students, share experiences, advocate, and educate others about issues that impact graduate family life.   RFP3-8 Building Community through Service Learning ($5,600) Support two initiatives that build graduate student community around the pedagogy of service learning: (1) an enhanced public service design lecture series to expand graduate student access to information about community-based invention and research, and develop graduate student networking opportunities by enhancing the social context for the lectures; and (2) a system of graduate student service learning brainstorming workshops and a working group to enable graduate students to share ideas, work in multidisciplinary teams, and teach, using service learning. Why? Develops avenues to ensure graduate student participation in service learning opportunities.   RFP3-11 Exposure to the Performing Arts ($5,000) Bring together graduate students from across the campus to enjoy the performing arts of Boston by providing organization and subsidies for those who might otherwise not have the means to do so on their own. In addition, arrange forums for discussion of the performances either pre- or post-performance. Why? Provides crucial support for the arts through activities on and off campus.   RFP3-12 Graduate Student Art Openings ($5,000) Continue to underwrite a reception hosted by the List Visual Arts Center for graduate students featuring the Student Loan Art Exhibition; introduce a lecture series that introduces new exhibits to smaller groups of graduate students. Based on the success of the past two fall receptions, the List is assured of this funding on an annual basis. Why? Offers ongoing support to events with proven track record.   RFP3-13 Graduate Student Community Art Exhibit ($2,000) Design and implement a juried art exhibit that features the work of graduate students and their families to be held in the Bush Room in April 2004. Why? Offers support for the arts, spotlighting those graduate students with talents in the visual arts.   RFP3-14 Handy Grad Workshops for Off Campus Students ($2,329) Subsidize Hobby Shop membership fees for more than 100 graduate students who participate in workshops to create a finished piece of furniture for their off campus homes. Why? Provides support to underserved constituency, those students who live off campus.   RFP3-15 Human @MIT ($2,500) Support a few programs in a series designed to enhance social and professional resources for the departments in the School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences, including an interdepartmental quiz bowl and debate series. Why? Provides support for creative effort with potential to serve as model for other departments.   RFP3-16 Institutionalizing Graduate Public Service at MIT ($13,891) Develop a collaborative system for supporting Graduate Student Volunteer Day (GSVD) that can also serve as a model for other institutional graduate student enterprises. This includes sharing information and celebrating achievements as well as increasing resources for graduate student involvement in public service through fellowships, grants, and the IDEAS award. Why? Creates infrastructure for important service activity that has proven track record of success.   RFP3-17 Integrated Career Mentorship Program ($5,000) Establish a program for graduate students based on the concepts of the pilot MentorConnection, including networking opportunities for students to meet working professionals and skill building seminars for students to develop key professional intelligence for future successes. Why? Provides additional mentoring services for graduate students.   RFP3-18 Mathematics Dinners with Faculty ($850) Provide opportunities for first year graduate students to get to know faculty better through informal small group settings (“invite a faculty member to dinner”). Why? Provides support for departmental activity with potential to serve as a model for others.   RFP3-19 Mediawomen Dinner Series ($2,125) Provide funding to develop what has been a pilot program for women in the Media Lab to socialize, offer support, and provide a venue for discussing what it means to be a woman in academics. Why? Supports existing program with potential to serve as model for others who wish to support women in the academy.   RFP3-23 Object Lessons: Sociable Encounters at the MIT Museum with Unique “Stuff” ($6,630) Develop a new two year series of programs for graduate students in which the curator of a collection will present a unique object for students to consider and then discuss, followed by a reception in the MIT Museum. Why? Creates broader awareness of the multifaceted nature of the museum and how it enriches the existing community.   RFP3-24 Physics Pride ($4,000) Continue sponsorship of the department’s community building efforts to include expanded orientation and Graduate Student Council activities. Why? Provides support to project with potential to serve as model for other departments.   RFP3-25 Place, Technology, and Space ($3,000) Support some programs in the series designed to enhance social and professional resources for the departments in the School of Architecture and Planning, specifically monthly talks and social events. Why? Supports departmental efforts toward building community that might serve as model for others.   RFP3-26 The Police@ MIT ($12,000) Underwrite the efforts of the Community Policing Unit to work with the graduate community, particularly the international community, to better understand needs and expectations and enable students to live more safely, securely, socially, and comfortably while at MIT. This effort includes surveys, educational programs, a safety fair, and meetings with individual student organizations. Why? Supports healthier communications between campus police and the graduate community.   RFP3-27 President’s Round Table ($3,750) Provide a monthly forum for key officers of on campus graduate residences as well as off campus representatives to meet for training and discussion regarding issues of importance in the residences. Why? Promotes opportunities for identifying and addressing issues faced by graduate students in their residences.   RFP3-28 Random Grad Student Dinners ($4,000) Plan and implement a series of random graduate student dinners, modeled after the highly successful random faculty dinners hosted by Professor Jay Keyser, to connect graduate students from diverse departments and constituencies. Why? Provides unique venue for conversations about issues critical to graduate student life.   RFP3-29 “Ready all…” ($3,100) Plan and implement Spring Sprints, a water- and land-relay competition for students organized by the MIT Boat Club. Why? Promotes camaraderie among graduate students in unique sports venue.   RFP3-31 Sand Mandala ($2,500) Complete the five stages in the construction of a Sand Mandala in a public space at MIT, where viewers can observe the process and learn about this ancient art form of Tibetan Buddhism. Why? Provides unique opportunity for MIT community to learn more about the basic values in Buddhist teaching; contributes toward building a more compassionate community.   RFP3-32 Sustainable Development Mixer ($2,025) Building on successful precedents, coordinate a social mixer that will include student groups, administrative organizations, and other individuals interested in sustainable development. Why? Opens channels of communication and provides the spark for brighter ideas and meaningful projects. Graduate Student Council International Students Office Office of the Dean for Graduate Education | Massachusetts Institute of Technology | 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Room 3-138, Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 T (617) 253-4860 | F (617) 253-5620 | Contact: odge@mit.edu
