Funded in 2002-03 | Office of the Dean for Graduate Education
Funded in 2002-03 | Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Search About ODGE Staff Organization (PDF) Current Ad-Hoc Committees Sponsored by ODGE 2015 Advisory Committee on Graduate Stipends Committee on Student Entrepreneurship (CSE) Graduate Admissions Team Student & Affiliates Health Insurance Advisory Committee Task Force on the Future of Graduate Education in the Context of MITx (TFGEM) Task Force on Graduate Student Professional Development (TFPRO) Working Group on International Student Support (WGISS) ODGE Participation Graduate Student Housing Working Group Services Strategic Plan One-page summary (PDF) Letter from the Dean (PDF) Supporting Educational Innovation and Excellence (PDF) Competitiveness in Graduate Funding (PDF) Administration and Policy (PDF) Diversity and Climate (PDF) Holistic Graduate Student Experience (PDF) Report to the President Grad Facts News & video Graduate Policies & Procedures Admissions & Registration Student status Regular student International student Listener Special student Part time status Nonresident status Visiting student Exchange scholar Transfer student Institute research staff Registration requirements Status of registration Retention of student status Medical report requirement Credit Academic terms Tuition and fees Changes in registration Add/drop Medical withdrawal Medical withdrawal: policy Medical withdrawal: procedure Personal leave Childbirth accommodation (“Maternity leave”) Leave for U.S. National Service Withdrawal, readmission Denials of further registration Registration holds Cross registration Harvard University Wellesley College Partnerships & exchanges Graduate Consortium in Women’s Studies MIT International Science and Technology Initiatives Exchange Scholar Program Cambridge-MIT Institute Harvard-MIT Health Sciences and Technology Other interdisciplinary study and research Academic performance Graduate academic standards Grades Cumulative rating Subject credits and designations Grade reports and transcripts Advanced Degrees Master’s degree Master of Science Master of Engineering Master of Architecture Master in City Planning Master of Business Administration Master of Finance Simultaneous registration for two master’s degrees Simultaneous award of bachelor’s and master’s degrees Engineer’s degree Doctoral degree Minor Program Language proficiency Interdepartmental programs Interdepartmental doctoral degree program Interdepartmental engineer’s degree program Interdepartmental master’s degree program Thesis Joint theses Restrictions on thesis publication Patent protection Government restrictions Privacy and security Thesis research in absentia Nonresident doctoral thesis research status Preparation of graduate theses Copyright Intellectual property policy Thesis hold Degrees offered Award of degrees Diploma format Financial Assistance Awards Applying Accepting RA/TA appointments Instructor-G and teaching assistants Research assistants Draper Fellows Terms of appointment Tuition and stipend payments Termination Registration Graduate resident tutors Other employment International students Job listings Conflict of interest, commitment Loans Faculty Oversight Departmental committees Committee on Graduate Programs Graduate officers Graduate administrators Petitions Roles & Relationships Roles Student and faculty Department Institute Appointments to teaching and research staffs Student leadership Academic integrity Professional & personal development Graduate Personal Support (GPS) Other resources Career planning Professional development video portal (PRO-DEPOT) Path of Professorship 2014 Program Application 2012 Photo Gallery Teaching at MIT Writing Student Snapshots Student finances Loans Fellowships External fellowships Fellowships for internationals Presidential Graduate Fellowship Program ODGE Fellowships ODGE Awards Study abroad grants Sample fellowship budget Other resources Dental Coverage MIT PPO Value Plan Summary MIT Plan Frequently Asked Questions DeltaCare Plan & PPO Plus Premier Plan Summary Plan comparison RA & TA appointments Support for activities & community Taxes Tuition & fees Get involved with community Committed to Caring C2C Nomination Form John Belcher Harry Lee Brent Ryan Kay Tye Fund for Graduate Community Graduate Community Fellows Current Fellow positions Request a new Fellow position Graduate Student Life Grants Follow the guidelines Write your proposal Stay in touch Market your events Report on progress Sample budget Check other resources Funded projects Model programs Ongoing Funded in 2013-14 Funded in 2012-13 Funded in 2011-12 Funded in 2010-11 Funded in 2009-10 Funded in 2008-09 Funded in 2007-08 Funded in 2006-07 Funded in 2005-06 Funded in 2004-05 Funded in 2003-04 Funded in 2002-03 Power Lunch Programs and Resources for Women Celebration of graduate women Resources for grad families Add the “Grad Friendly” logo to your event Undergraduate outreach MIT Summer Research Program Application Qualifications Frequently Asked Questions Alumni News 2014 MRSP Interns Mayela Aldaz Sara Arussy Rebecca Betances Gerardo Bledt Keeisi Caballero Aaron Castellanos Tzu-Yu Chao Steven Chavez Angela Chen Darwin Cordovilla Gustavo Del Aguila II Ilyssa Evans Khalil Hill Michael Ising Mina Khan Everlyne Kimani Grace Lim Allison Martinez-Arocho Sirak Mekonen Elizabeth Melton Andrew Mendez Daryl Painton Donnell Pinder Ángel Placeres Erick Romo-Mendoza Aura Salazar Jose Salcedo Perez Samalis Santini Kelvin Smith Nicole Sonnert Michael Statt Leila Terrab Thibault Twahirwa Elias Valdivia Christian Vazquez 2013 MSRP Interns Jose L. Acevedo Mayela Aldaz North Asmare Elizabeth Berrigan Jacquelyn Boudle Chanell Boyd Julian Brathwaite Darwin Cordovilla Kristin Dettmers Venisa Dodi Keiron Durant Daniela Espinosa Roberto Falcon Sebastian Gomez Kenneth Gutierrez Edward Guzman Julie Hofstra Erenis Lemus Alexander Limia Alyssa Loving Florise Luc Papakyriakou Marc Nathan Martin Chelsea McConnell Sirak Mekonen Andrew Mendez Marco Messina Rudo Mudzi Yves Nazon II Kemi Oyewole Kristina Pardo Monica Perez Radamés Ríos-González Jesus Salas Angel J. Santiago-Lopez Adriana Santiago-Miranda Michelle Shu Kate Sundheim Bethel Tarekegne Miguel Twahirwa Luis Valle Katrina Williamson 2012 MSRP Interns Manuel Ahumada Michael Alemayehu Ronald Alexander Luis Alvarez Victor Calderon Arrivillaga Angel Asante Edward Bello Sarah Cameron Bernardo Cervantes Grace Christenbery Laura López Cruz Eshan Dahal Darrel Deo Ohiremen Dibua Gilles Dongmo-Momo Daniel Drew Mauricio Flores Brittany Grassbaugh Kenneth Gutierrez Edward Guzman La’Toya James Nicole Love Choolwe Mandona Adan Medina Priya Moni Moises Montalvo Lafontaine Arnaldo Negron Marty Adesuwa Nosakhare Irving Olmedo Ramiro Piñón Alex M. Suarez Bethel Tarekegne Andira Ramos Katarina Sirka Soraya Terrab Miguel de la Salle R. Twahirwa Ken Wilson Asia Wyatt CONVERGE Conferences Resources Committed to Caring C2C Nomination Form John Belcher Harry Lee Brent Ryan Kay Tye Fund for Graduate Community Graduate Community Fellows Current Fellow positions Request a new Fellow position Graduate Student Life Grants Follow the guidelines Write your proposal Stay in touch Market your events Report on progress Sample budget Check other resources Funded projects Model programs Ongoing Funded in 2013-14 Funded in 2012-13 Funded in 2011-12 Funded in 2010-11 Funded in 2009-10 Funded in 2008-09 Funded in 2007-08 Funded in 2006-07 Funded in 2005-06 Funded in 2004-05 Funded in 2003-04 Funded in 2002-03 Power Lunch Programs and Resources for Women Celebration of graduate women Resources for grad families Add the “Grad Friendly” logo to your event Funded in 2002-03 In 2003, the Dean for Graduate Students funded a total of 23 proposals: 9 proposals in Round 1, and 14 proposals in Round 2. Funding per proposal ranged from $500 to $12,000. If you have any questions about the current status of these proposals, please contact gslg [at] mit.edu.   Round 1: Proposals for enhancing the graduate experience Physics Pride Campaign Sponsor departmental effort to develop vibrant and healthy community despite fact that students are dispersed across campus. The new campaign includes an orientation for new students, weekly socials, and weekly colloquia. Why? Set a precedent for departmental efforts and encourage the idea of setting aside a pool of funds for future departmental proposals, especially those with matching funds.   Graduate Student Council Web Site Overhaul Support the GSC’s effort to redesign their website to serve as a portal to Institute services for graduate students. This work is based on the GSC’s research and strategic thinking in the development of a communications strategy. Why? Serves GSC staff who publish information as well as the wide audience that relies on the site for information. Improved communication also serves the (underserved) student who lives off campus and for whom the web site may be the best way to gather opinions and convey information about existing programs and services.   Graduate Student Art Reception Underwrite outreach to graduate students by the List Visual Arts Center through a special private reception to view the student art collection. This proposal had unanimous support and was funded above the levels requested. The selection panel will encourage the List to plan additional programs for grad students throughout the year. Why? Spark interest in other LVAC exhibitions and cultural events on campus.   Off campus graduate life Support the development of a new system for addressing quality of life issues for students who live off campus, beginning with those in MIT owned residences. Why? Encourage group to develop this idea further and determine how the allocated funds might be spent, for example, to develop community by encouraging interaction about residences.   Research expo Allocate seed money as a vote of confidence for the idea, encouraging the group to flesh out their proposal for a conference-style venue for exhibiting research at MIT, where grads and undergrads can showcase their work to the rest of the community. Why? This proposal has a large scope and some history but a good team just might be able to pull it off. Encourage moving forward with the idea, perhaps designing a smaller event as proof of concept.   Collaborative student group events Support the concept of fostering collaborations among student groups in planning group events. Why? Encourage working with the Dean on a mechanism for evaluating future requests for collaborative sponsorship.   Ashdown courtyard improvements Purchase benches and install additional gas barbecue pits in the courtyard to enhance this space for the use of Ashdown residents and other student groups. Why? Encourage Ashdown residents and other student groups to reserve this community space for social events.   Improving the first year experience at Ashdown Support a dinner for residents and nonresidents, all first year grad students, and encourage future participation in social and cultural life of the residence. Why? A good model for reaching out to residents and nonresidents, all first year graduate students, at which hosts would encourage future participation in other social and cultural activities.   Ramadan @MIT The proposal was offered partial funding (to support 2 of the 4-5 dinners proposed) to enhance an existing asset. The first such event occurred after 9/11 and was an effort by the MIT Muslim Student Association to foster understanding between the different groups of people that make up MIT’s “melting pot.” Why? Express appreciation for and encourage the inclusiveness of this plan.   Round 2: Proposals for enhancing the graduate experience Monthly Race and Diversity Forum Schedule monthly forums to discuss issues of race and diversity at MIT, loosely organized on a different theme or question each month. Some themes include: ‘Does racism exist at MIT?’ ‘How can I communicate better with people from different cultures or races than my own?’ Forums are open to all members of the community. Why? Encourage dialogue on diversity as well as outreach to other offices and organizations at MIT.   spouses&partners Existing organization focuses on two new initiatives especially for graduate students and their families: develop website by expanding “frequently asked questions” for newcomers; and promote babysitting exchange among graduate families with children. Why? Focus on underserved graduate constituency; potential for expanded childcare services using “Babynet” as a model.   Building Conflict Resolution Skills Design a means to spread the basic skills of conflict resolution to the graduate student body in the Department of Chemistry. The proposed program includes exploration of different skill sets through workshops with poster sessions and informal discussions. The intent is to reach all students in the department and beyond. Why? Well considered pilot program with solid potential as a community model for others.   Student-made Pottery for Ashdown House Common Areas Invite artists in the community to create distinctive ceramic pots for plants in common areas of Ashdown House. Why? Collaborative effort with the Student Art Association and those who use public spaces in Ashdown as beneficiaries. Opportunity for public celebration offers another opportunity for community building.   Video | Capturing the Social Essence of Grad Life Design and produce three video documentaries to capture the social side of graduate research, work, and life, that is vital to a life changing graduate education. Why? Creative attempt to document community from a student’s point of view, with GSO and GSC as potential “customers” of this video material.   Pilot First Year Graduate Student Mentorship Program Develop mentoring program for first year graduate students in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering through formal program that includes training, discussion forums, social events, and a formal evaluation. Why? Support students to develop their own sense of community; enhance communication. If successful, the pilot will attract departmental funding in the future and serve as model for others.   Building off campus community Provide a means for off campus students to communicate with fellow students who live nearby, and delegate responsibility for organizing events, bringing a bit of MIT community away from campus and closer to home. Why? Practical plan for identifying and addressing needs of underserved grad student constituency.   IAP/Spring Marathoning Clinic Provide a comprehensive and professional five-month training workshop for runners and aspiring runners who want to develop a fitness program with ultimate goal of completing a 26-mile marathon. Why? Proposal builds community at each step of the process. Good collaboration among existing groups.   Weekly Wednesdays Create opportunity for a diverse cross-section of MIT grad students from every School, department, lab, residence, and affinity group to come together and “connect” on a regular basis in an informal setting (the Muddy Charles Pub). Why? Based on successful model and open to the entire graduate community. Opportunity for those who work closely with grad students to attend or host an event.   Crossing Disciplines in the Arts Address the need expressed by students for interdisciplinary discourse by developing informal connections for students studying in Architecture, Media Arts, Visual Studies, and Comparative Media Studies, through series of forums in which students present and discuss their work. Why? Help to create community for every graduate arts student, encouraging creativity and discussion around current themes in art and technology. Valuable pilot project that, if successful, could be open to the general MIT community.   Publicly Sharing Graduate Student Artwork Using the MIT Artist Behind the Desk Program as a model, create a structure that allows students to present their artistic work to the MIT community through a series of exhibitions, performances, and presentations. Why? Based on a successful model that brings people together based on their interest in the arts.   How can newsgroups improve communication within the graduate community? Renovate the newsgroup server (news.mit.edu) and market its potential as a useful communications tool to express opinions and exchange ideas. Why? Another vehicle to promote effective communication among graduate students.   Formation and support for InterLink Create a student organization for supporting the international graduate community by disseminating information about new and evolving regulations, scheduling community coffee hours, and training volunteers to develop networks among students and administration. Why? Thoughtfully considered infrastructure for a collaborative effort in support of the international community at a critical time. Aligns efforts with the International Students Office.   List Visual Arts Center Receptions Host special private receptions with food and beverages for graduate students to complement the remaining two exhibits of the 2002-2003 season. Why? Based on enormously successful reception for graduate students hosted by the List last fall. Graduate Student Council International Students Office Office of the Dean for Graduate Education | Massachusetts Institute of Technology | 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Room 3-138, Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 T (617) 253-4860 | F (617) 253-5620 | Contact: odge@mit.edu
