Getting Started - Community Users and Former Students - Guides at Texas A&M University
Getting Started - Community Users and Former Students - Guides at Texas A&M University This is the "Getting Started" page of the "Community Users and Former Students" guide. Alternate Page for Screenreader Users Skip to Page Navigation Skip to Page Content Chat/Questions Admin Sign In University Libraries » Guides » Community Users and Former Students Community Users and Former Students   Tags: resourceguide   Last Updated: Mar 14, 2015 URL: http://guides.library.tamu.edu/CommunityUsersFormerStudents Print Guide RSS UpdatesEmail Alerts Getting Started Borrowing Online Resources Print, Scan, Copy Websites, General Websites by Subject Getting Started Comments(0) Print Page Search Text Search Type   Search:    This Guide All Guides LibCatMSL CatalogWebAll Research Guides Search   Directions, Maps, Parking Evans Library & Annex Cushing Library Medical Sciences Library West Campus Library Policy Science & Economics Library Hourly Visitor Parking Real-Time Availability   Chat With Us JavaScript disabled or chat unavailable. Chat is offline. Comments (0)   Welcome We welcome former students and the community to the University Libraries. Use the tabs above to find information about our services as well as links to useful websites from other organizations. Comments (0)   Retired Faculty and Staff Retired Faculty You retain these privileges after you retire: access to electronic resources (with your NetID), circulation privileges, and Get it for me privileges. Books obtained through interlibrary loan are held for you at the check-out desk specified in your Get it for me registration; they are not delivered via mail or courier. Retired Staff You may borrow materials for the same period of time as employed staff members. Other privileges are the same as for other community users. Comments (0)   For Texas Veterinarians and Health Professionals Services provided by the Medical Sciences Library: Texas Veterinarians and CVM Alumni Texas Health Professionals Comments (0) Ask Us Team Chance Medlin Contact Info 979-845-3676 Send Email Links: Profile & Guides   Powered by Springshare; All rights reserved. Report a tech support issue. View this page in a format suitable for printers and screen-readers or mobile devices. Footer Navigation Giving to the Libraries Texas A&M University Employment Webmaster Legal Comments 979-845-5741 Site Map Accessibility Description   Loading... More Information   Loading... Close  
