Jane L. Stanford: A Brief History - Stanford University
Jane L. Stanford: A Brief History - Stanford University Skip to Content Search Web Pages Submit Visionary Mentor, Loving Mother Introduction The Stanford University story begins with a couple so distraught and bereaved over the loss of their son that they could not bear to have his memory forgotten. Jane and Leland Stanford lost their only son, Leland, Jr., a 16-year-old young adult with boundless energy and curiosity, to illness while traveling abroad. The Stanfords resolved to give other young adults the opportunity that their son never had. Shortly after the opening of the University, Jane Lathrop Stanford was widowed and the Stanford dream rested solely in her heart and on her shoulders. She was an indefatigable advocate for educating youth and building a prominent university for them; so much so that she was willing to sell her personal jewelry to fund the University. No other university was born out of as great love and determination as that of Jane Stanford.   Jane Stanford: Biography Jane Elizabeth Lathrop was born August 25, 1828 in Albany, New York, to Dyer and Jane Ann Shields Lathrop. "Jennie," as her husband would call her, was raised and educated at home, as were most young women of her generation... Early Life and Marriage Heading West A Child Is Born and Lost The Leland Stanford Junior University Jane as Administrator Jane's Final Voyage Jane Stanford: Timeline Adapted from A Chronology of Stanford University and Its Founders by Karen Bartholomew, Claude Brinegar, and Roxanne Nilan (Stanford Historical Society: Stanford, CA, 2001). Her Early Years A Wife and Mother Founding the University Jane The Matriarch Jane Stanford: Her Values and Impact "I hope your lives will be truly earnest, not in the sense of going forth to acquire great wealth and great names; but to be conscientious workers, to be helpful to others, to send cheer and goodwill to those who need lifting up, and always follow the Golden Rule, 'to do unto others as you would have others do unto you.'" From an address prepared but not delivered for Stanford University's opening ceremony, October 1, 1891. Jane Stanford's Values Current reminders of Jane's impact See Also askJane Ask Jane Your Questions. askjane.stanford.edu provides convenient 24/7 access to generally-applicable answers to FAQ's of several central offices serving Stanford students. Student Services Center Come with Questions. Leave with Answers. The Student Services Center is committed to providing a single point of friendly, professional service for answers to questions concerning administrative and financial issues. Recommendations for Further Reading Citations Stanford University Contact Information © Stanford University. 450 Serra Mall, Stanford, California 94305. (650) 723-2300. Terms of Use | Copyright Complaints
