Map and Directions | Harvard Divinity School
Map and Directions | Harvard Divinity School Skip to main content Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Directory Webmail MY.HDS Library Search Google search box code About Dean's Welcome HDS at a Glance Accreditation History and Mission Community Values Job Opportunities Directory Frequently Asked Questions Map and Directions Admissions & Aid Apply Dates and Deadlines How to Apply Reapplication Process International Applicants Request Information Financial Aid Connect with HDS Connect with Students Diversity at HDS Graduate Stories Frequently Asked Questions Publications Admitted Students Contact Admissions Academics Degree Programs Courses Field Education Buddhist Ministry Initiative Nondegree Programs Academic Advising Registrar Faculty & Research Faculty Faculty News and Research Programs and Centers Publications Research Projects Conferences and Seminars Faculty Openings Research Appointments Life at HDS Community Life Religious and Spiritual Life Student Profiles Housing Resources Health, Wellness, and Safety Accessibility Learning Support International Students Career Services Technology News & Events Public Events Calendar Commencement Media Expertise Harvard Divinity Bulletin HDS Current Video and Multimedia Contact Communications Alumni & Friends Alumni Community News and Activities 2014 Dean's Report Frequently Asked Questions Give to HDS Contact Development and External Relations HOME / ABOUT / Map and Directions View interactive Harvard University Campus Map Download a printable map of the HDS campus Driving directions From the north Take I-93S South toward Boston Take the School Street (Somerville) exit Take a right onto Somerville Avenue Take a left onto Dane Street After about one third of a mile, take a right onto Washington Street Continue onto Kirkland Street After about two tenths of a mile, take a right onto Francis Avenue. From the south Take I-95 or Route 3 to I-93 North Take Exit 28 off of I-93 North Take a left onto Cambridge Street After about one third of a mile, continue onto Washington Street After about seven tenths of a mile, take a left onto Prospect Street Take a right onto Somerville Avenue Continue onto Washington Street After about six tenths of a mile, continue onto Kirkland Street After about two tenths of a mile, take a right onto Francis Avenue. From the west Take the Massachusetts Turnpike to Exit 18, marked "Cambridge/Allston" Follow the Cambridge signs off the ramp to the traffic lights; stay in the middle lane while crossing the bridge Proceed across the bridge onto River Street; stay in the left lane and follow River Street about one mile into Central Square, the first major traffic intersection Travel straight across the intersection (here River Street becomes Prospect Street) At the second light, turn left onto Broadway Follow Broadway to its end at Quincy Street, in the midst of the Harvard campus, and bear right, with the fire station on the left, onto Quincy Street Proceed on Quincy Street through two traffic lights until Quincy ends at Kirkland Street Take a right on Kirkland Street Take a left on Francis Avenue. Public transit Taking the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA, known locally as the "T") is a great option for getting to HDS. The closest T stop to HDS is the Harvard Square stop on the red line. The Harvard Square station has several exits; once above ground, look for the gates of Harvard Yard and follow our walking directions from there (see below). For more information on MBTA fares, maps, and schedules, visit the MBTA website. Public transit from Logan Airport The MBTA Silver Line, a bus rapid-transit system, stops at all Logan Airport terminals. Take the Silver Line to South Station. From South Station, take the Red Line inbound six stops to Harvard Square. Walking from Harvard Square The Harvard MBTA subway stop is located in the center of Harvard Square. From Harvard Square, walk northeast across Harvard Yard, where you will come across an open plaza with the Science Center on the left; walk through the plaza to Kirkland Street. To reach Divinity Hall, turn left on Divinity Avenue, the first street to the left (you'll see a large white building at the intersection of Divinity Avenue and Kirkland). Divinity Hall is the last building on the right, at 14 Divinity Avenue. To reach the rest of the HDS campus, stay on Kirkland, proceeding past Divinity Avenue, to Francis Avenue, and turn left on Francis. Andover Hall and the Andover-Harvard Theological Library will be on the left side of the street, at 45 Francis Avenue. Rockefeller Hall, 47 Francis Avenue, is beside Andover Hall to the north. The Center for the Study of World Religions, 42 Francis Avenue, is on the right side of the street, across from Andover Hall. The Carriage House, at 56 Francis Avenue, is also on the right side of Francis Avenue, just beyond the bend at Jewett House, the Dean's residence. Parking Some parking is available in various areas near the HDS campus. There is limited metered parking available: On Kirkland Street, in either direction On Divinity Avenue On Francis Avenue On Quincy to the left off Broadway, along Harvard Yard. There are also public garages in Harvard Square: Trinity Property's Harvard Square Parking Garage at 65 John F. Kennedy Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Propark's Church Street Garage at 41 Church Street, Cambridge MA 02138 Propark's Smith Center (formerly Holyoke Center) Garage at 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge MA 02138. University parking permits Guest permits to all University parking areas are issued on a first-come, first-served basis, and may be obtained from the Parking Office website. You will need to register on the site prior to purchasing a permit, and to register you will need a Department Code. Please contact your HDS host to obtain the Department Code for the Divinity School. About HDS Dean's Welcome HDS at a Glance Accreditation History and Mission Community Values Job Opportunities Directory Frequently Asked Questions Map and Directions HDS Buildings Divinity Hall Andover Hall Andover-Harvard Theological Library Andover-Harvard Theological Library Rockefeller Hall Center for the Study of World Religions Carriage House (Women's Studies in Religion Program) Jewett House f32c045c5efdf3c7421b3f7e77468ebb HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138   617.495.5761 my.hds | Harvard University | Privacy Policy | Trademark Notice | Reporting Copyright Infringements Copyright © 2015 President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Terms of Use | Report Copyright Infringement
