MIT Association of Student Activities (ASA) :: About ASA
MIT Association of Student Activities (ASA) :: About ASA skip to main content Search Support/Arbitration Board Members Meeting Schedule Meeting Notes Office Hours Email Archives & Public Lists Contact Info FAQ Elections MIT-Funded Sponsor-Funded MIT Student Group Club Sport Dorm/FSILG Compare Privileges ASA Guidelines ASA Policies ASA Bylaws MA Hazing Law Recruitment Rules Judicial Process New Group Application Constitution Requirements Sample Constitution Anti-Hazing Acknowledgement Recognition Procedures Re-recognition Procedure Guide for New Groups Student Group List Group Funding Funding Large Events Bulletin Boards Office Space Mailboxes Event Planning Reserving Space Get a Group Website Alumni Involvement Opportunities for Collaboration Retreat Planning Midway 1st Year Summer Mailing Tech Ads Public Advertising Space Database FAQ Account Numbers Use of Data What is the ASA? The Association of Student Activities (ASA) is a joint committee of both the Undergraduate Association (UA) and the Graduate Student Council (GSC). The ASA Executive Board advocates on behalf of student groups to gain resources for student groups' benefit, allocates resources among student groups, and arbitrates among student groups and any other involved parties. In general, the ASA oversees student group activity and is the governing body of students groups on the MIT campus. Who serves on the ASA? The ASA Executive Board is comprised of ten student members: one President, one Treasurer, one Secretary, one Student Member-At-Large, two Undergraduate Members-At-Large, two Graduate Members-At-Large, one UA Representative to the ASA, and one GSC Representative to the ASA. Each member must be an MIT student. The UA President appoints the UA Representative to the ASA, and the GSC President appoints the GSC Representative to the ASA. The General Body, which is made up of all ASA-recognized student groups, elects the other eight officers of the ASA Executive Board at the Spring General Body Meeting. What does it mean to be an ASA-recognized student group? An ASA-recognized student group has access to all the resources and privileges provided by the ASA. Recognized groups are considered to be recognized by MIT, which is important for national organizations and organizations that compete. Being a recognized group is a privilege and entails certain responsibilities. These responsibilities include following the 5/50 and ASA Governance clauses and the inclusion of these clauses in the student group's constitution. student group list SAO home ASA Home asa-exec@mit.edu w20-401 Massachusetts Institute of Technology
