MIT Graduate Student Council || Funding
MIT Graduate Student Council ||   Funding About GSC Overview Executive Officers Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC Committees Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Association of Student Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Muddy Charles Pub Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity General Council Representatives Overview List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy Programs & Initiatives Backup Child Care 2013 Career Fair Legislative Action Graduate Student Cost of Living Graduate Women (GWAMIT) GradRat NAGPS Institute Awards Advising Grad School 101 & 102 Professional Development Series Academic Career Series More >> Funding Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Council Application Institute Representatives Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Resources Anno Submissions Subscribe to the Anno GSC Logo Past Initiatives Past Meeting Records Rental Equipment News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) External Coverage Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events Contact Us Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Graduate Student Group Start-up Fund GSC Collaboration Award   GSC Finances The GSC has an annual budget of over $300,000. This is used for a variety of initiatives, ranging from orientation events to grants for student groups. Funding is an important issue for graduate students and student groups alike. The GSC funds individuals and the graduate community in a number of ways Funding In this Section GSC Budget Learn where the GSC allocates its $300K+ budget. Online Payment Requests Non-Student Groups can now process reimbursements, travel, and purchase orders online.  Available to Council Representatives and GSC volunteers. Athletic & Performance Activities Grant Graduate students taking part in competitions around the nation can find information on how to apply for the GSC Athletics/Performance Activities Grant to help them cover the costs of travel to these competitions. Council Representatives Funding Council Representatives can find information regarding the per-semester funding given to them to carry out activities for the groups they represent. Student Group Funding Student groups can find information regarding the GSC’s Funding Board, which allocates approximately $130,000 per year in events and capital funding to graduate student groups at MIT. This is the largest distribution of money to graduate student groups anywhere at the Institute. Travel Grant Fund The only GSC source of funding for personal academic expenses. Students looking for such funding may wish to consult the Graduate Students Office financial aid overview and official policies. Student Group Collaboration Award In order to facilitate the collaboration and interdisciplinary activities/events across different student groups, this award encourages the student groups to think outside the box and forge collaboration with other groups, going deeper than simply sharing financial resources. Student Group Start up Funding  To provide necessary resources to student groups that have just been formed  and recognized by ASA. Besides the financial resource, GSC would also assist and provide knowledge for managing/growing student groups whenever possible. Sustainability Fund  To provide grants to graduate students and groups who are keen to champion an activity or lead an action that directly aids towards making the MIT campus clean, environmentally benign and resource efficient. GSC-PSC Joint Service Fund The Graduate Student Council and the MIT Public Service Center have partnered to create this fund out of a mutual recognition that graduate students, often consumed with academic and life responsibilities, may want support in engaging in public service and community outreach. Funding Board Timeline   Go To Top » Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Contact Meeting Records Subscribe to RSS Feeds ExComm Login © MIT Graduate Student Council
