MIT Graduate Student Council || Orientation
MIT Graduate Student Council ||   Orientation About GSC Overview Executive Officers Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC Committees Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Association of Student Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Muddy Charles Pub Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity General Council Representatives Overview List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy Programs & Initiatives Backup Child Care 2013 Career Fair Legislative Action Graduate Student Cost of Living Graduate Women (GWAMIT) GradRat NAGPS Institute Awards Advising Grad School 101 & 102 Professional Development Series Academic Career Series More >> Funding Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Council Application Institute Representatives Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Resources Anno Submissions Subscribe to the Anno GSC Logo Past Initiatives Past Meeting Records Rental Equipment News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) External Coverage Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events Contact Us Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity   Orientation Ina Kundu & Hector Fornes 2014-2015 Orientation Co-Chairs For more information about Graduate Orientation 2014, please visit the Orientation 2014 website. The goal of the Orientation Committee is to welcome incoming first year graduate students to MIT and provide a conduit for integration into the community. The OC holds over 60 events, over the course of 4 weeks to help new students know the institute, know the people and know the city. New students will become familiar with their new school and city, and they may make their closest friends during their first month at MIT, during orientation! Orientation is undoubtedly the most exciting time of the school year. Remember how lost you were when you first arrived, and how orientation helped you meet people and make friends… Come join the Orientation Family, and help welcome the first years to MIT! If you wish to get involved in this fun and rewarding experience, please contact us. Planning and Volunteers The coordinators and volunteers for Orientation are fellow students who want to help make the first year students? transition easy and fun. Planning for Orientation begins in March, and extends all the way through the end of September. The two OC chairs work closely with the GSC officers, administrators and the MIT community at large for high-level planning. Each event also has one or more coordinators, who are responsible for event details, and recruiting volunteers. If you’re interested, please contact us. Types of Events The events are divided into three categories know the institute, know the people and know the city. Know the institute events include Grad School 101 and 102 and a formal Welcome Address from MIT President Susan Hockfield and other distinguished speakers. Know the people events include dance parties in the graduate dorms and many welcome banquets and receptions. Know the city events include a volunteer day, Boston Duck Tours and a pub crawl. Events will have relevant information and mingling opportunities for families, minorities and international. Funding Several departments and offices within MIT also sponsor Orientation, along with MIT affiliated groups including the Harvard-MIT Coop, the MIT Federal Credit Union and Techlink. External sources of funding also exist, which are generally corporate sponsors who help fund a particular event. The total budget for Orientation is on the order of $100,000. Frequently Asked Questions I’m thinking of helping out! What do I do? The GSC Orientation Committee is now recruiting! Participating in Graduate Orientation is fun, exciting, and a great way to meet new people! Your commitment will be flexible. You can lead event organization, design graphics, or just lend a helping hand on the day. For your help you will be guaranteed a variety of perks. For more information please contact us at gsc-oc [at] mit [doc] edu.   Contact Please direct all questions and queries to gsc-oc [at] mit [dot] edu.   Events & Meetings  MIT Earth Days Tuesday, April 21 12:00am - 11:59pm GSC Sustinability Meeting Tuesday, April 21 5:00pm - 6:00pm MIT Earth Days Wednesday, April 22 12:00am - 11:59pm MIT Earth Days Thursday, April 23 12:00am - 11:59pm MIT Earth Days Friday, April 24 12:00am - 11:59pm   Recent News  Announcement: 2015-2016 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is happy to inform all MIT graduate students that after partnership and collaboration between the... Make a Difference on the Graduate Student Council! Are you interested in making a difference at MIT? Do you want to have a say in a $500,000-a-year budget?... Costco Card Program The GSC is proud to announce the launch of the Costco Card program, which allows any graduate student to borrow...  Go To Top » Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Contact Meeting Records Subscribe to RSS Feeds ExComm Login © MIT Graduate Student Council
