MIT Graduate Student Council || Publications and Publicity
MIT Graduate Student Council ||   Publications and Publicity About GSC Overview Executive Officers Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC Committees Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Association of Student Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Muddy Charles Pub Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity General Council Representatives Overview List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy Programs & Initiatives Backup Child Care 2013 Career Fair Legislative Action Graduate Student Cost of Living Graduate Women (GWAMIT) GradRat NAGPS Institute Awards Advising Grad School 101 & 102 Professional Development Series Academic Career Series More >> Funding Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Council Application Institute Representatives Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Resources Anno Submissions Subscribe to the Anno GSC Logo Past Initiatives Past Meeting Records Rental Equipment News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) External Coverage Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events Contact Us Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity   Publications and Publicity Chris Aakre 2014-2015 Publications and Publicity Chair The primary purpose of the Publications & Publicity Board is to keep the graduate student body informed about all issues related to graduate student life. These issues range anywhere from events to GSC programs to MIT administrator policies. The committee has several modes of dispersing information, including the Graduate Student News, the GSC website, posters, slides, brochures, and videos. To find out more or to get involved in the P&P Committee, or for more information, please email the GSC Secretary at gsc-pp-chair[at]mit[dot]edu. Any student is welcome and encouraged to participate in the P&P Board. However, the Board consists of seven official members as outlined by the Constitution, including the GSC Secretary, who acts as committee chair. The Editor and Managing Editor of the Graduate Student News and the GSC Webmaster are also members. The remaining three members are appointed, two by the board and the third by the GSC President with consent of the General Council. GSC Webmaster The Graduate Student Council website is one of GSC’s primary modes of disseminating information to graduate students. It is designed to be the primary online resource for graduate students across the Institute. We encourage you to find out more about the website by navigating across it. If you have any comments or concerns, please email the webmaster at gsc-webmaster[at]mit[dot]edu. GSC Creative Media Manager The Creative Media Manager (CMM) supports efforts in promoting engagement in and chronicling MIT graduate student life. The CMM provides a coordination role of many GSC marketing processes, which includes generating photos, videos, and graphic design content that serves to document graduate student life and resources at the Institute, as well as designing engaging and eye-catching marketing campaigns that inform and engage graduate students more efficiently. The CMM is generously supported by the Graduate Community Fellow program from the Office of the Dean for Graduate Education (ODGE). The CMM can be reached a gsc-creative[at]mit[dot]edu.   Events & Meetings  MIT Earth Days Tuesday, April 21 12:00am - 11:59pm GSC Sustinability Meeting Tuesday, April 21 5:00pm - 6:00pm MIT Earth Days Wednesday, April 22 12:00am - 11:59pm MIT Earth Days Thursday, April 23 12:00am - 11:59pm MIT Earth Days Friday, April 24 12:00am - 11:59pm   Recent News  Announcement: 2015-2016 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is happy to inform all MIT graduate students that after partnership and collaboration between the... Make a Difference on the Graduate Student Council! Are you interested in making a difference at MIT? Do you want to have a say in a $500,000-a-year budget?... Costco Card Program The GSC is proud to announce the launch of the Costco Card program, which allows any graduate student to borrow...  Go To Top » Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Contact Meeting Records Subscribe to RSS Feeds ExComm Login © MIT Graduate Student Council
