MIT Graduate Student Council || Sustainability Fund
MIT Graduate Student Council ||   Sustainability Fund About GSC Overview Executive Officers Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC Committees Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Association of Student Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Muddy Charles Pub Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity General Council Representatives Overview List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy Programs & Initiatives Backup Child Care 2013 Career Fair Legislative Action Graduate Student Cost of Living Graduate Women (GWAMIT) GradRat NAGPS Institute Awards Advising Grad School 101 & 102 Professional Development Series Academic Career Series More >> Funding Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Council Application Institute Representatives Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Resources Anno Submissions Subscribe to the Anno GSC Logo Past Initiatives Past Meeting Records Rental Equipment News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) External Coverage Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events Contact Us Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Graduate Student Group Start-up Fund GSC Collaboration Award   Sustainability Fund The sustainability fund was introduced to provide grants to graduate students and groups who are keen to champion an activity or lead an action that directly aids towards making the MIT campus clean, environmentally benign and resource efficient. Both student groups and individuals can apply for events or activities aimed at campus sustainability initiatives. To find out whether your group is eligible for funding from the GSC, please check the eligible graduate student group list for eligible student groups. If your group is not on the list, please contact the GSC Treasurer. Note that only MIT funded student groups are eligible for the GSC funding. Check your student group’s class and privileges in the ASA database. Goals of the GSC Sustainability Fund The goal of the GSC Sustainability Fund is to educate and to engage graduate students in environmentally sustainable living practices. Educational events and initiatives focussing on environmental sustainability are given preference. Event planners who strive to minimize their events’ environmental impact (for example zero-waste events or events where local produce is highlighted) are also strongly encouraged to apply for the GSC Sustainability Fund. Applications can be found here. Funding and Publicity Guidelines  All funded events are required to meet the Funding Guidelines. Furthermore, events funded by the GSC are required to meet our Publicity Guidelines by publicizing their events in the MIT events calendar and in the Anno. In addition to fulfilling the general GSC Funding Board guidelines, the following eligibility and action requirements  must be met:  Registration with the GSC Sustainability Team Any event applying for the GSC Sustainability Fund must email gsc-sustainability-fund@mit.edu to inform the GSC Sustainability Team of the event details. The GSC Sustainability Team will provide you with a Green Event Guide, which outlines the ways in which you can minimize your event’s impact on the environment. All events funded by the GSC Sustainability Fund will be announced on the GSC Sustainability webpage. Education & Accountability Any event applying for the GSC Sustainability Fund must include an educational component on environmental sustainability. Minimum requirements for education include - Signage (including clear labels on compost / recycling / trash) - Announcements during the event Minimum requirements for accountability include -Completing the Sustainability Fund Accountability Report. Planning a “Green” Event Exceptional applicants for the GSC Sustainability Fund will include more than the minimum requirements for sustainability education and accountability. Applicants should keep environmental responsibility in mind when organizing their events. When planning an event, think about the following broad categories: Catering Can you source your food from local farms and companies? If you must use single-use disposable dishware, can you opt for compostable ones instead of plastic ones? Waste Will there be clearly labelled bins available to dispose of waste properly (compost / recycling / trash)? Can you encourage attendees to bring their own plates and utensils to reduce waste?  Communication & Education How can you incorporate an educational component into your event? Transportation What options are available for the MIT community to access your event? Walking, cycling, public transit, carpooling? Energy and Efficiency What are ways to minimize energy consumption at your event? The board of the GSC Sustainability Fund is here to help you plan an environmentally responsible event. For tips & guidance, please do not hesitate to contact us at gsc-sustainability-fund@mit.edu Green Team is available to help you!  If you are organizing an event funded by the GSC Sustainability Fund, please be sure to contact the Green Team at gsc-sustainability-greenteam@mit.edu (the earlier in your event organizing process, the better)! The Green Team can help you host a sustainable event by giving you information and advice on composting and other considerations. The earlier you contact us, the more we can help you! For more information, please visit the website. Important Dates for 2014-2015 Tentative Schedule: changes may occur and will be announced on this webpage and by email. Funding Cycle Applications Open Application Deadline Cycle Start Cycle End Reimbursement Deadline Summer/Fall Round I (Summer) May 17, 2014 June 7, 2014 July 1, 2014 September 30, 2014 October 15, 2014 Summer/Fall Round II (Fall) September 7, 2014 September 21, 2014 October 1, 2014 December 31, 2014 January 15, 2014* IAP/Spring Round I (IAP) December 3, 2014 December 14, 2014 January 1, 2015 March 31, 2015 April 15, 2015 IAP/Spring Round II (Spring) March 7, 2015 March 19, 2015 April 1, 2015 June 30, 2015 July 15, 2015* * Reimbursements will have at least a 2-business day grace period after the date of the event, but no later than the last day of the cycle. Reimbursement requests are processed at the SAO office, on the 5th floor of the student center (W20-549). Funds for IAP/Spring 2015 (Round 2) have been allocated! Allocation amounts for IAP/Spring 2015 (Round 2) funding can be found below: Reimbursement Process If you are applying as a student group, then follow the same procedure as the reimbursement process for the student groups. If you are applying as an individual, please submit your request for payment through ATLAS by filling out the request for payment reimbursement under the buying tab and send it to the GSC treasurer (search the treasurer’s last name). Fill out the G/L account with 420344 and leave the cost object empty. Submit the scanned receipts, scanned proof of payment, and an electronic print-out of the MIT calendar listing as attachment. Accepted formats include pdf, jpg, png, gif or bmp. Note that the original itemized receipts, a print-out of the MIT Events Calendar listing, and proof of payment (remember, MIT is tax exempt) should be sent to the Student Activies Office (W20-549). Past Allocations FY15: IAP/Spring 2015 : Round 1 Summer/Fall 2014 : Round 2 Summer/Fall 2014 : Round 1     GSC Sponsored Events  Christians on Campus Spring BBQ Tuesday, April 21 11:00am - 4:00pm Screening: Immigrant America Thursday, April 23 6:00pm - 7:30pm Karaoke! (Thirsty Ear Pub) Thursday, April 23 7:30pm - 11:59pm Waste Research and Innovation Night Friday, April 24 7:00pm - 9:00pm CAST Ping Pong Tournament Saturday, April 25 6:30pm - 8:30pm Tang Sushi Social Saturday, April 25 7:00pm - 9:00pm Game of Thrones Viewing Party Sunday, April 26 9:00pm - 10:00pm   Recent News  Announcement: 2015-2016 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is happy to inform all MIT graduate students that after partnership and collaboration between the... Make a Difference on the Graduate Student Council! Are you interested in making a difference at MIT? Do you want to have a say in a $500,000-a-year budget?... Costco Card Program The GSC is proud to announce the launch of the Costco Card program, which allows any graduate student to borrow...  Go To Top » Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Contact Meeting Records Subscribe to RSS Feeds ExComm Login © MIT Graduate Student Council
