MIT Graduate Student Council || Get Involved
MIT Graduate Student Council ||   Get Involved About GSC Overview Executive Officers Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC Committees Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Association of Student Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Muddy Charles Pub Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity General Council Representatives Overview List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy Programs & Initiatives Backup Child Care 2013 Career Fair Legislative Action Graduate Student Cost of Living Graduate Women (GWAMIT) GradRat NAGPS Institute Awards Advising Grad School 101 & 102 Professional Development Series Academic Career Series More >> Funding Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Council Application Institute Representatives Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Resources Anno Submissions Subscribe to the Anno GSC Logo Past Initiatives Past Meeting Records Rental Equipment News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) External Coverage Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events Contact Us Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative   Get Involved No matter your experience, the GSC needs you. The GSC volunteer opportunities deal with a variety of issues within the graduate student community. All of our many committees need volunteers like you! Get Involved In this Section There are various ways in which you can get involved with your Graduate Student Council. Please fill out our volunteer interest form to be contacted by the GSC! Volunteer Opportunities Learn about the volunteer opportunities on GSC committees, projects, and initiatives.  If you are interested, please complete our volunteer interest form. Council Representatives (nominations open through September) Council Representatives serve on the General Council and attend the monthly business meetings of the Graduate Student Council.  Representatives are responsible for conveying the concerns, sharing ideas and opinions of their constituency, and reporting to their constituency on Council issues. Institute Representatives (nominations partially closed) Serving on as an Institute Representative as a graduate student enables you to significantly impact important decisions made by the Institute. Institute Representatives serve as a voting member of a committee which advises faculty and administration, and ultimately reports to President Susan Hockfield. Executive Committee (nominations open in March) The GSC Executive Committee is elected in the winter semester.  Officers are elected at our April General Council Meeting and committee chairs are elected at their respective committee meetings. Create an Initiative If you would like to create an initiative to serve the graduate community, please submit your idea here.   Go To Top » Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Contact Meeting Records Subscribe to RSS Feeds ExComm Login © MIT Graduate Student Council
