MIT Graduate Student Council || Athletic & Performance Grant
MIT Graduate Student Council ||   Athletic & Performance Grant About GSC Overview Executive Officers Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC Committees Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Association of Student Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Muddy Charles Pub Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity General Council Representatives Overview List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy Programs & Initiatives Backup Child Care 2013 Career Fair Legislative Action Graduate Student Cost of Living Graduate Women (GWAMIT) GradRat NAGPS Institute Awards Advising Grad School 101 & 102 Professional Development Series Academic Career Series More >> Funding Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Council Application Institute Representatives Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Resources Anno Submissions Subscribe to the Anno GSC Logo Past Initiatives Past Meeting Records Rental Equipment News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) External Coverage Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events Contact Us Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Graduate Student Group Start-up Fund GSC Collaboration Award   Athletic & Performance Grant   The purpose of the Athletic & Performance-Activities Grant is to support graduate students who pursue a non-research/non-academic activity at competitive levels. The grant is designed to support MIT graduate students who take part in competitions/concerts/events throughout the year, both nationally and internationally. The grant covers fees and expenses such as registration, accommodation, travel (air, car rental, gas, tolls, parking, public transportation), equipment shipment if needed, etc. The Grant does not pay for: long term equipment for everyday or regular practices; coaching or coach travel; friend/spouse/significant other travel; memorabilia; league membership fees; uniforms; food. training camps instruction/classes Questions? gsc-apag@mit.edu. (Moderated list) GSC Athletic & Performance Activities Grant Criteria The number of grants given per term will depend on the amount of money available for that term. The ceiling of each fund granted to individual graduate students is $500 during each of the four terms of the year: Fall, IAP/Winter, Spring, Summer. Recipients of this grant will be directed to contact the GSC Financial Administrator for reimbursement for their expenses. All expenses are reimbursable, and travel advances will not be granted. Original receipts and a copy of the competition/concert/event registration must be submitted. Proposals are reviewed on the basis of the following criteria: the extent to which the competition/concert/event travel is currently unfunded or unsupported by the applicant?s group, club, department, the larger Institute or the event organizers; the degree to which the activity will enhance the experience of the MIT graduate student and/or expand his/her skills and exposure in the activity pursued. Application Procedures Fill out the official GSC Grant Application. If you have additional attachments, please e-mail them to gsc-apag@mit.edu. The list is moderated, but your application will be received by the Grant Committee. Applications with missing required documents will not be considered. It is expected that members of a team travelling to the same competition will submit the same budget (including personal contribution). No exceptions will be made. It is also preferred that a team submits a joint application, making it clear how many people are applying, and with individual personal statements and letters of recommendation; however, individual members of a team are still free to submit separate applications GSC Athletic & Performance Activities Grant Timeline Period Covered Application Deadline Date of Notification Reimbursement Deadline April 1 – June 30, 2015 March 1, 2015 March 20, 2015 July 15, 2015 July 1 – September 30, 2015 June 1, 2015 June 20, 2015 October 15, 2015 October 1 – December 31, 2015 September 1, 2015 September 20, 2015 January 17, 2016 January 1, 2016 – March 31, 2016 December 1, 2015 December 20, 2015 March 15, 2016   Request for Payment Process Reimbursement Procedures Please use MIT’s electronic reimbursement system (Concur) for your out-of-pocket expenses. Once the reimbursement is approved, you will receive funds in direct deposit* (if information is on file at HR/payroll). *Not sure if you’ve set up direct deposit? See instructions below for checking & entering your information on ATLAS. Setting up Direct Deposit: Go to ATLAS (https://atlas.mit.edu/) Click on upper tab “ABOUT ME” Under “Money Matters”, click on “Direct Deposit Preferences” If you have direct deposit set up, it should be listed there. If not, follow the instructions on site to complete set-up. Reimbursement Instructions Getting to MIT Concur: Go to ATLAS (https://atlas.mit.edu/) Under “Menu”, click on “Full Catalog” Click on “Travel Expenses (Concur)” under the “Travel” category Filing an Expense Report: Under Expense tab, click “New Expense Report”, & fill out information. Important! For the Report Name type “3.6 Athletic Funding ”, followed by the semester,  year, & your first and last name. (ex. 3.6 Athletic Funding Summer 2014 Monika Avello) Type in Cost Object # 1735270. Confused? If you require detailed instructions on how to use this electronic system, check out the 3 options below: Online instructions provided at http://www.concurtraining.com/customers/mit/. Visit a drop-in training session that happens every Wednesday 10-11 a.m. in the Little Cayman Training Room (NE49, floor 3). Contact Imani Ivery (imani[at]mit[dot]edu) for all questions regarding the reimbursement procedure. Follow-up You’ve submitted your reimbursement online. Now what? Submit a hardcopy of your travel report & the original, detailed receipts to Imani Ivery, at 50-220. Note: For airfare receipts, ONLY coach or economy seats are reimbursable (no upgrades, business class, etc). Want to know the status of your reimbursement? Set up email notifications on ATLAS (A) or check directly (B). (A) Email Notification Set-up: Go to ATLAS homepage (https://atlas.mit.edu/) Click on upper tab “ABOUT ME” Under “My Profile”, click “Settings & Authorizations” Select your preferences under “Email Notification Settings” (B)  Directly checking reimbursement status: Go to ATLAS homepage (https://atlas.mit.edu/) Under Menu, go to “My Reimbursements”, and click “Track My Reimbursements” Under “Details” tab, click “Comments”. Imani leaves notes here if there are any issues regarding your reimbursement. (C) Tracking the status of your reimbursements: Go to ATLAS homepage (https://atlas.mit.edu/) Click on lower tab “FULL CATALOG” Under My Reimbursements, go to “Track My Reimbursements”. All of the reimbursements that you have submitted for payment will be listed and the status of each reimbursement will be listed also.    Notes Teams should choose a captain and the captain will be responsible for getting reimbursed fully and distributing the money among the members of the team.   GSC Sponsored Events  Christians on Campus Spring BBQ Tuesday, April 21 11:00am - 4:00pm Screening: Immigrant America Thursday, April 23 6:00pm - 7:30pm Karaoke! (Thirsty Ear Pub) Thursday, April 23 7:30pm - 11:59pm Waste Research and Innovation Night Friday, April 24 7:00pm - 9:00pm CAST Ping Pong Tournament Saturday, April 25 6:30pm - 8:30pm Tang Sushi Social Saturday, April 25 7:00pm - 9:00pm Game of Thrones Viewing Party Sunday, April 26 9:00pm - 10:00pm   Recent News  Announcement: 2015-2016 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is happy to inform all MIT graduate students that after partnership and collaboration between the... Make a Difference on the Graduate Student Council! Are you interested in making a difference at MIT? Do you want to have a say in a $500,000-a-year budget?... Costco Card Program The GSC is proud to announce the launch of the Costco Card program, which allows any graduate student to borrow...  Go To Top » Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Contact Meeting Records Subscribe to RSS Feeds ExComm Login © MIT Graduate Student Council
