MIT Graduate Student Council || Application for Graduate Student Council Representative
MIT Graduate Student Council ||   Application for Graduate Student Council Representative About GSC Overview Executive Officers Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC Committees Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Association of Student Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Muddy Charles Pub Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity General Council Representatives Overview List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy Programs & Initiatives Backup Child Care 2013 Career Fair Legislative Action Graduate Student Cost of Living Graduate Women (GWAMIT) GradRat NAGPS Institute Awards Advising Grad School 101 & 102 Professional Development Series Academic Career Series More >> Funding Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Council Application Institute Representatives Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Resources Anno Submissions Subscribe to the Anno GSC Logo Past Initiatives Past Meeting Records Rental Equipment News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) External Coverage Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events Contact Us FAQ on Council Representatives Application for Graduate Student Council Representative   Application for Graduate Student Council Representative An individual must submit a nomination petition in order to be considered a voting member of the GSC. In the absence of opposition, submission of the petition is sufficient to join the Council. The term of office extends until October 15. Current representatives may keep or relinquish their position. Should there be more than one candidate for an available position, the student organization of the corresponding department or living group will, in conjunction with the Secretary of the GSC, conduct an election with the winner being the new representative from the group. An overview of the GSC Representative position is available. Before submitting the application below: review the positions available and check if you need to contact the students organization in your constituency download and complete the validation form Please leave this field empty. Download the application validation form.. First Name (required) Last Name (required) MIT email address - please include "@mit.edu"(required) The constituency you are representing(e.g. Mechanical Engineering; or, Westgate) (required) Expected Degree (e.g. S.M.) (required) How long have you been at MIT? (required) When do you expect to graduate? (required) Please indicate which GSC Standing Committee(s) you are most interested in getting involved in: 1st choice (required) ---Academics, Research, & CareersActivitiesHousing & Community AffairsOrientation 2nd choice ---Academics, Research, & CareersActivitiesHousing & Community AffairsOrientation 3rd choice ---Academics, Research, & CareersActivitiesHousing & Community AffairsOrientation 4th choice ---Academics, Research, & CareersActivitiesHousing & Community AffairsOrientation Please fill out and attach it here required Note: An application must contain the names and signature of 20% or 20 members (whichever is less) of the constituency, .pdf file only   Events & Meetings  MIT Earth Days Tuesday, April 21 12:00am - 11:59pm GSC Sustinability Meeting Tuesday, April 21 5:00pm - 6:00pm MIT Earth Days Wednesday, April 22 12:00am - 11:59pm MIT Earth Days Thursday, April 23 12:00am - 11:59pm MIT Earth Days Friday, April 24 12:00am - 11:59pm   Recent News  Announcement: 2015-2016 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is happy to inform all MIT graduate students that after partnership and collaboration between the... Make a Difference on the Graduate Student Council! Are you interested in making a difference at MIT? Do you want to have a say in a $500,000-a-year budget?... Costco Card Program The GSC is proud to announce the launch of the Costco Card program, which allows any graduate student to borrow...  Go To Top » Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Contact Meeting Records Subscribe to RSS Feeds ExComm Login © MIT Graduate Student Council
