MIT Graduate Student Council || Funding Guidelines
MIT Graduate Student Council ||   Funding Guidelines About GSC Overview Executive Officers Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC Committees Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Association of Student Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Muddy Charles Pub Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity General Council Representatives Overview List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy Programs & Initiatives Backup Child Care 2013 Career Fair Legislative Action Graduate Student Cost of Living Graduate Women (GWAMIT) GradRat NAGPS Institute Awards Advising Grad School 101 & 102 Professional Development Series Academic Career Series More >> Funding Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Council Application Institute Representatives Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Resources Anno Submissions Subscribe to the Anno GSC Logo Past Initiatives Past Meeting Records Rental Equipment News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) External Coverage Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events Contact Us Funding Guidelines Publicity Guidelines   Funding Guidelines The GSC Funding Board is described in the GSC Bylaws, Article II, Section C, Part 3. The Allocations Board is composed of the GSC President, GSC Treasurer, ASA Treasurer, one GSC Activities Committee Chair, one ASA Graduate Member-At-Large, and one Graduate Student Member-at-Large appointed by the Council. The Appeals Board is composed of the GSC Treasurer, GSC Vice President, and one ASA Member-at-Large. The Goal of GSC Funding What is Funded Actions You must Take to Receive GSC Funding Funding Allocation Meetings Requirements and Considerations GSC Funding Board Alcohol Policy The Goal of GSC Funding To encourage social life on campus, to improve the lives and work of graduate students, to increase the visibility of the GSC, and to ensure that the special needs of graduate students will be addressed. The fairness and openness to all graduate student groups are the duties of the GSC Funding Board. What is Funded Events Medium Events Capital Expenses Actions you must take to receive GSC Funding Receive ASA recognition as a >50% graduate group before the funding application deadline. Apply for funding from GSC before the posted deadline on the GSC Funding Board homepage If requested to by the Funding Board, come to the Allocation Meeting to answer questions about your requests. Contact gsc-treasurer[at]mit[dot]edu immediately if your group wishes to reschedule the Allocation Meeting with the Funding Board or waive the right to appear at the Allocation Meeting. Publicize the event at least 14 days in advance using the MIT’s Events Calendar and the GSC anno. Here is the link to add events to the events calendar.  Here is the link to add events to the GSC anno. Be sure to include GSC Funding Board (group code 2800) as a co-sponsor on the Events Calendar. (View currently posted events). Use the Funding Board logo (black or white) on all advertisements. Note that paper posters are not required and should be used with the knowledge that they generate low awareness and large amounts of waste. Submit both the electronic and hard copy components of each reimbursement request before 5pm on the funding cycle deadline, as set by the GSC treasurer: Student groups are encouraged to use the online ATLAS (RFP) service. Please reference the funding period (Summer/Fall Round 1, for example), event title, and event details in the reimbursement form. Submit the scanned receipts, scanned proof of payment, and an electronic print-out of the MIT calendar listing as attachment. Accepted formats include pdf, jpg, png, gif or bmp. Please fill in the ‘cost object’ with your group’s funding account number, and use G/L account 420344 for event expenses, and G/L account 421588 for capital expenses. Please choose the treasurer or other financial signatories of your group as the recipient for approval. The original itemized receipts, a print-out of the MIT Events Calendar listing, and proof of payment (remember, MIT is tax exempt) should be sent to the Student Activies Office (W20-549). Submit an electronic copy of the GSC Funding Board Post-Event Report to the GSC Treasurer (gsc-treasurer[at]mit[dot]edu).  The template can be found here.  The template is similar to the Post-Event report required by the ASA for LEF/ARCADE funding. Comply with the Institute and GSC Alcohol Policies. Failure to comply with MIT policies and/or GSC Funding Board Guidelines could lead to citations and/or warnings from the GSC Funding Board regarding the GSC funding related issues, and/or a failure on the part of the GSC to provide funding and/or reimbursement. In order to help graduate student groups coordinate and run events smoothly and follow MIT policies and GSC Funding Guidelines, members of the GSC Executive Committee will visit GSC-funded events from time to time. Funding Allocation Meetings The funding allocation meetings are usually held in the week after the funding application deadlines. The exact dates and schedules of funding application deadlines and funding allocation meetings will be posted on the Funding Board web page and will be distributed by email through gsc-funding mailing list. New requests for funding may or may not be accepted in the Appeals meeting depending upon the funds available. Current Funding Periods Period Allocation Round Dates Applications Due Summer/Fall ~ 85K I July – September June II October – December September IAP / Spring ~ 85K I January – February December II March – June February Requirements and Considerations made by the Funding Board The current stated goal of the Funding Board is to give preferential allocation to events Events (Social, cultural, educational, etc) Must be open to all MIT graduate students Must be of general interest to Graduate Students Must charge all MIT students, whether they are the members or non-members of the student group, the same entrance fee if greater than half the total funds are from the GSC Must be advertised campus wide with the GSC name (or logo in the case of posters), which should not be less than 5% of the paper used for advertising Event must be posted on the Events Calendar at least 14 days before the event and include GSC Funding Board as a sponsor, and NOT the Graduate Student Council. Advertising must include all relevant information in English Only original itemized receipts will be reimbursed. A credit card receipt without itemization is not sufficient. Sales tax will not be reimbursed. Contact the GSC office or gsc-treasurer[at]mit[dot]edu for details Events demonstrating forethought and preparation are given higher consideration Events that meets graduate student needs are given high consideration The size of a student group, and the history of an organization’s activities and use of funding awards, will be considered when allocating funding. Funding will only be awarded for specific events. Funding awards may include certain restrictions or prerequisites for reimbursement. Funding allocations not used during the period for which it was awarded is lost and goes back into the pool to fund groups for the next term. Funding is never guaranteed until the Funding Board meets and votes on the application. Special considerations are not given to events that have occurred in the past. The current stated goal of the Funding Board is to give preferential allocation to events that contain an educational or professional development component. The reasoning for this preference stems from the Funding Board’s desire to enrich and expand the scope of student life on campus and allow for graduate students to be exposed to as many new ideas as possible. Funding for food will be as follows: Desserts and snacks – $4 per person Self prepared food – $7 per person Non-ethnic/cultural food – $7 per person Ethnic/cultural food – $9-10 per person Capital Expenses Items that will be reused for many events are given high consideration. Items that will help student groups meet their goals are considered. Items that will stay with the student groups are given high consideration. Well budgeted items will receive higher consideration. All capital expenses must follow the Institute policies and guidelines on capital purchases. Items must have a storage location on campus that is not in a personal domicile. Medium Events Events with a total budget greater than $800. Events expecting more than 120 attendees. Each student group may only request funding for a single medium event per funding cycle. In case of collaboration of 2 or more student groups, student groups are allowed to apply for an additional medium event per funding cycle. All guidelines listed for regular events must also be followed. GSC Funding Board Alcohol Policy GSC Funding Board funds cannot be used to buy alcohol. However, alcohol may be present at a Funding Board sponsored event if other funding sources are used to purchase the alcohol and the event fully complies with all MIT Alcohol Policies, including the additional restrictions which apply to student groups.   GSC Sponsored Events  Christians on Campus Spring BBQ Tuesday, April 21 11:00am - 4:00pm Screening: Immigrant America Thursday, April 23 6:00pm - 7:30pm Karaoke! (Thirsty Ear Pub) Thursday, April 23 7:30pm - 11:59pm Waste Research and Innovation Night Friday, April 24 7:00pm - 9:00pm CAST Ping Pong Tournament Saturday, April 25 6:30pm - 8:30pm Tang Sushi Social Saturday, April 25 7:00pm - 9:00pm Game of Thrones Viewing Party Sunday, April 26 9:00pm - 10:00pm   Recent News  Announcement: 2015-2016 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is happy to inform all MIT graduate students that after partnership and collaboration between the... Make a Difference on the Graduate Student Council! Are you interested in making a difference at MIT? Do you want to have a say in a $500,000-a-year budget?... Costco Card Program The GSC is proud to announce the launch of the Costco Card program, which allows any graduate student to borrow...  Go To Top » Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Contact Meeting Records Subscribe to RSS Feeds ExComm Login © MIT Graduate Student Council
