MIT Graduate Student Council || News
MIT Graduate Student Council ||   News About GSC Overview Executive Officers Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC Committees Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Association of Student Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Muddy Charles Pub Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity General Council Representatives Overview List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy Programs & Initiatives Backup Child Care 2013 Career Fair Legislative Action Graduate Student Cost of Living Graduate Women (GWAMIT) GradRat NAGPS Institute Awards Advising Grad School 101 & 102 Professional Development Series Academic Career Series More >> Funding Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Council Application Institute Representatives Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Resources Anno Submissions Subscribe to the Anno GSC Logo Past Initiatives Past Meeting Records Rental Equipment News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) External Coverage Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events Contact Us Announcement: 2015-2016 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase On April 8, 2015, in GSC, by Secretary The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is happy to inform all MIT graduate students that after partnership and collaboration between the GSC Housing and Community Affairs Committee and the Office of the Dean for Graduate Education (ODGE), graduate student stipend levels will be increased an average of 3.7% for the upcoming academic year. The GSC Housing […] 0 Comments Read More Make a Difference on the Graduate Student Council! On October 20, 2014, in GSC, by Secretary Are you interested in making a difference at MIT? Do you want to have a say in a $500,000-a-year budget? Do you have an opinion on issues like Fossil-Free MIT? Then represent your department as a Graduate Student Council Representative! The Graduate Student Council is a student-run, ever-changing community with 61 years of history and […] 0 Comments Read More Costco Card Program On September 20, 2014, in GSC, by Secretary The GSC is proud to announce the launch of the Costco Card program, which allows any graduate student to borrow a Costco Card from Copytech for their personal use. Costco Cards can be picked up from Copytech (11-004). Feel free to call Copytech at (617)-253-2806 to find out if any cards are available to borrow. […] 0 Comments Read More Launch of Orientation 2014 Website On August 1, 2014, in GSC, by Secretary The Graduate Student Council is pleased to announce that the Orientation website is now live, which means that your incoming students can start checking out: Calendar of more than 50 events spanning 21 days Blog posts with information about student groups and resources on campus Answers to frequently asked questions List of sponsors who make […] 0 Comments Read More Orientation Logo Contest 2014 On June 22, 2014, in GSC, by Secretary The contest for the 2014 MIT GSC Orientation Logo is now open! If you like to draw, design, or create things, then this is a chance to make an impact! Design a logo that represents MIT and send it to the Orientation Committee (gsc-oc@mit.edu) by Monday, July 7. The logo should feature elements distinctive of […] 0 Comments Read More Meet the New GSC Leadership Team On April 18, 2014, in GSC, by Secretary Meet the New GSC Officers! Photo by Tami Forrester of The Tech. The GSC General Council has elected a new team of officers for the 2014-2015 year. The new officers will begin their terms on May 7th. Read short bios of the new officers below! Click here for a recent article from The Tech about […] 0 Comments Read More Somerville SafeRide Shuttle Assessment On April 3, 2014, in GSC, by Secretary In the Fall of 2013, the GSC and the MIT Transportation and Parking Office partnered on a trial launch of a new SafeRide route serving graduate students living in Somerville and East Cambridge. This pilot program ended in December 2013. The GSC Transportation Subcommittee, led by Alex Jacquillat, Maite Pena Alcaraz, and Brian Spatocco, has […] 0 Comments Read More Announcement: 2014-2015 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase On April 1, 2014, in GSC, Live, by Secretary Dear MIT Graduate Student, We are honored to inform you that, after months of diligent work and partnership between the Graduate Student Council (GSC) and the Office of the Dean for Graduate Education (ODGE) graduate student stipend levels will be raised, on average, 4% for the upcoming academic year. This increase demonstrates the Institute’s continued […] 0 Comments Read More LASC Members Publish Immigration Reform Letter in Science Mag. On March 20, 2014, in GSC, by Secretary Arolyn Conwill, Yuqing Cui, and Daniel Day, members of the GSC’s Legislative Action Subcommittee, published a letter in Science Magazine highlighting the link between US competitiveness in basic research and its traditional openness to international graduate students. The letter also encourages US policymakers to take up immigration policy reform to expand access to H1-B visas. […] 0 Comments Read More GSC Elections Recruiting Reception On February 18, 2014, in GSC, by Secretary GSC Elections Recruiting Reception Interested in running for a position on the GSC Executive Committee? Stop by for a casual information session with the current team. Heavy appetizers and refreshments will be provided. When: Thursday, February 20th, 5:30pm-7:30pm Where: The Asgard Irish Pub and Restaurant (350 Massachusetts Avenue in Cambridge) Contact: gsc-vp@mit.edu 0 Comments Read More « Previous Entries News Tags  General GSC Live Play Uncategorized Work   Events & Meetings  MIT Earth Days Tuesday, April 21 12:00am - 11:59pm GSC Sustinability Meeting Tuesday, April 21 5:00pm - 6:00pm MIT Earth Days Wednesday, April 22 12:00am - 11:59pm MIT Earth Days Thursday, April 23 12:00am - 11:59pm MIT Earth Days Friday, April 24 12:00am - 11:59pm   Recent News  Announcement: 2015-2016 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is happy to inform all MIT graduate students that after partnership and collaboration between the... Make a Difference on the Graduate Student Council! Are you interested in making a difference at MIT? Do you want to have a say in a $500,000-a-year budget?... Costco Card Program The GSC is proud to announce the launch of the Costco Card program, which allows any graduate student to borrow...  Go To Top » Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Contact Meeting Records Subscribe to RSS Feeds ExComm Login © MIT Graduate Student Council
