MIT Graduate Student Council || Governing Documents
MIT Graduate Student Council ||   Governing Documents About GSC Overview Executive Officers Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC Committees Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Association of Student Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Muddy Charles Pub Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity General Council Representatives Overview List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy Programs & Initiatives Backup Child Care 2013 Career Fair Legislative Action Graduate Student Cost of Living Graduate Women (GWAMIT) GradRat NAGPS Institute Awards Advising Grad School 101 & 102 Professional Development Series Academic Career Series More >> Funding Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Council Application Institute Representatives Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Resources Anno Submissions Subscribe to the Anno GSC Logo Past Initiatives Past Meeting Records Rental Equipment News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) External Coverage Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events Contact Us Officers Overview Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC   Governing Documents The governing documents for the GSC are comprised of the Constitution (below), the GSC Bylaws, and Amendments to the Constitution & Bylaws. Constitution of the MIT Graduate Student Council Article I. Name Article II. Purpose Article III. Membership Article IV. Officers Article V. Elections Article VI. Voting Procedures Article VII. Council Meetings Article VIII. Initiatives Article IX. Open Records Article X. Amendments Article XI. Ratification Article I. Name The graduate students at MIT shall be known collectively as the Graduate Student Body. Their official representative body shall be known as the Graduate Student Council (GSC). Article II. Purpose The purposes of the Graduate Student Council shall include the following four items: To represent the graduate students on all matters pertaining to their general welfare as graduate students. To provide for and promote graduate student extra-curricular activities. To provide for the welcoming and orientation of new graduate students. To provide a formal means of communication among graduate students. Article III. Membership Graduate Student Body All regular and special students of MIT carried on the Registrar’s rolls as graduate students shall be members of the Graduate Student Body. Graduate Student Council Any member of the graduate student body is eligible to serve on the Council. No individual may hold more than one of the following positions at any given time: a Council representative, a Council standing committee chair, and/or a Council officer. The representatives of the Graduate Student Council shall be chosen as follows: Departmental Representation There shall be openings for one Council representative for every 100 graduate students, or fraction thereof, in each academic department and degree granting interdepartmental graduate program. No department or degree granting graduate program shall have more than five openings. Housing Representation Housing Representation: There shall be openings for a Council Representative from each on-campus graduate living group, as listed in the GSC Bylaws. In addition there shall be two openings for Council members not living in the aforementioned residences, or any other residence which may be deemed “on campus housing”. Their purpose shall be to represent the interests of the off-campus graduate student population. At-Large Representation There shall be 5 openings for representatives of constituencies not mentioned above. The Council may vote to designate these At-large seats to be named seats, representing particular distinct constituencies. By naming these seats it is hoped that the constituency will be more properly identified and that the constituency can better manage its representation. Such designation must be approved by a 2/3 vote of the Council. The Council must satisfy itself that the membership of the constituency approves the designation. Designation may be removed by a 2/3 vote of the Council. Traditional rules of inactivity will apply to any named seats. The Graduate Student Council may establish standing or ad hoc committees to pursue specific goals of the Council. Each committee shall be chaired by at least one graduate student. Graduate student members of Institute Committees shall be ex officio members of Council committees concerned with related issues. Further details regarding Council committees shall be provided in the Bylaws. The Officers of the Graduate Student Council shall be as defined in Article IV of this Constitution. Article IV. Officers Council shall elect its officers, who shall be the President, the Vice-President, the Treasurer, and the Secretary. The term of office is one year. No person may hold two offices simultaneously. No person may hold the same office for more than two full years. The officers of the Council shall be voting members. Article V. Elections Election of Council Members Members terms will be for one year, starting October 15. They may seek re-election. The election procedure shall be provided in the By-laws. The President shall convene the council-elect. Any member may resign by submission of a written resignation to the Council President. The recall of a member may be initiated as shall be provided for in the By-Laws. Election of Council Officers The officers shall be nominated and elected by the Council at its April meeting. They shall assume office at the May meeting. An officer may be impeached by any three members of the Council, and the officer may be removed by a 2/3 vote of the members of the Council. Article VI. Voting Procedure Each Council representative, Council standing committee chair and Council officer shall have one and only one vote on all matters. Unless specified otherwise, voting decisions by the Council shall be made by simple majority of those present at a Council meeting provided quorum has been established. Further voting procedures shall be defined in the Bylaws. Article VII. Council Meetings Call to Meetings The President shall call regular meetings. At least three meetings per semester must be held. A majority of the Council shall constitute a quorum. Meetings shall be open to all graduate students. Special Meetings Special meetings of the council may be called to consider a special item or items of business, by the President, by two members of the Executive Committee, by four Council members, or by petition of any ten graduate students. Article VIII. Initiatives Initiatives requesting the submission of a matter to a vote of the Graduate Student Body can be made by petition of 5% of the Graduate Student Body or by a majority vote of the Council. The result of the vote will be binding on the Council if at least 15% of the Graduate Student Body concurred in the result. Article IX. Open Records Records and documents of the graduate Student Council shall be open to inspection by any graduate student, subject to Institute policy. Article X. Amendments Constitution Amendments to this Constitution may originate in the Council or through petition in writing by ten graduate students. Proposed amendments must be conspicuously posted for a period of two weeks before action or adoption. Adoption requires at least a 3/4 vote of the full Council followed by a majority of graduate students voting in a referendum. Council must vote within six weeks of posting an amendment. A referendum must be held within six months of Council approval. Bylaws By-Laws may be amended by a 2/3 vote of the full Council. Article XI. Ratification This Constitution and appended By-Laws shall be ratified if a majority of the graduate students voting in a referendum held in December, 1968 Shall approve it. It will take effect, if passed, on January 1, 1969, and will supersede all previous constitutions.   Governing Documents Home About GSC Officers Overview Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Bylaws Amendments Annual Reports of the GSC 2012-2013 Annual Report 2011-2012 Annual Report 2010-2011 Annual Report 2009-2010 Annual Report 2008-2009 Annual Report 2007-2008 Annual Report 2006-2007 Annual Report 2005-2006 Annual Report 2004-2005 Annual Report Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Committees & Boards Academics, Research, & Careers Graduate Women (GWAMIT) Legislative Action Subcommittee Digital Learning Subcommittee Activities GradRat Past event: Nature Day at Boston Harbor Island! Past event: MIT/WHOI Summer Picnic and Beach Day! Past event: Frendsie Frenzy II !! Past event: MIT-Harvard Halloween Party: Mad Science Upcoming: Grad Coffee Hour Three Dollar Tuesday Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs HCA: Cost of Living HCA: Family Subcommittee HCA: Childcare GSC-MIT Backup Childcare Program HCA: Childbirth Accommodation Policy HCA: Off Campus HCA: Sustainability Subcommittee Nominations Board Institute Committee Representatives Institute Committees Institute Representative Reporting Form 2013-2014 Institute Committee Rep Application – New Positions Open Apply to Ad Hoc Institute Committees Call for Applications (2013-2014 Institute Committee – Ongoing) 2014-2015 Institute Committee Rep Application Orientation Publications and Publicity Programs & Initiatives Academic Career Series Advising Dissertation Boot Camp Grad School 101 & 102 Institute Awards Institute Awards Nominations Graduate Community Space Graduate Community Space – Photo Competition Forum on Graduate Community Space Life In Between Graduate Student Cost of Living Professional Development Series GSC International Student Mentorship Program NAGPS MIT President Search MIT President Search – Online Comments MIT President Search – Public Report Somerville Shuttle – Pilot Program Leadership Development Funding Budget Payments GSC Finance – Check to Vendor Request GSC Finance – Purchase Order Request GSC Representative Event Funding Form Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Publicity Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Travel Grant Application Form Travel Grant Letter of Recommendation Submission Form Graduate Student Group Start-up Fund GSC Collaboration Award Resources Anno Submissions Anno Example Announcement GSC Logo Past Initiatives Sustainability Task Force Diversity Task Force DTF – Presidential Diversity Ambassadors Task Force on Taxation Leadership Evolution for Graduate Students (LEGS) Graduate Pass/D/Fail Option – FAQ Students for Graduate Curriculum Options Past Meeting Records 2008-2009 Meeting Records 2009-2010 Meeting Records 2010-2011 Meeting Records 2011-2012 Meeting Records Rental Equipment Equipment Rental Form News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events General Council Council Representatives Overview FAQ on Council Representatives Application for Graduate Student Council Representative List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy 2012 MIT Commencement – Speaker Suggestions Contact Us testpage Funding Board Application for Student Groups Ivy Summit 2011 Ivy+ Summit 2011 Hotel Maps Proposals Schedule Campus Wireless Ivy Summit – MIT Volunteers Credit Card Policy GSC Startup Fund Applications GSC collaboration Award Joint Student Task Force on Presidential Search External Coverage 2013 GSC Webmaster Application PTAC 2012 Application The Graduate: AFTER LIFE – Article Submissions GSC Food Ordering System Graduate Community Wellness 2013 Career Fair 2011 Grad School 101/102 Orientation Resources Kendall Rezoning Forum Childcare Orientation Redirect GSC Arts Subcommittee Chancellor Search 2013 – We need your input! Submit Your GSC Surplus Reinvestment Idea GSC Mobile Developer Application TEST2014 Cambridge Recycling & Waste Privacy Policy Two Dollar Tuesday – Registration Group Change Events & Meetings  MIT Earth Days Tuesday, April 21 12:00am - 11:59pm GSC Sustinability Meeting Tuesday, April 21 5:00pm - 6:00pm MIT Earth Days Wednesday, April 22 12:00am - 11:59pm MIT Earth Days Thursday, April 23 12:00am - 11:59pm MIT Earth Days Friday, April 24 12:00am - 11:59pm   GSC News  Announcement: 2015-2016 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is happy to inform all MIT graduate students that after partnership and collaboration between the... Make a Difference on the Graduate Student Council! Are you interested in making a difference at MIT? Do you want to have a say in a $500,000-a-year budget?... Costco Card Program The GSC is proud to announce the launch of the Costco Card program, which allows any graduate student to borrow...  Go To Top » Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Contact Meeting Records Subscribe to RSS Feeds ExComm Login © MIT Graduate Student Council
