MIT Graduate Student Council || Representatives
MIT Graduate Student Council ||   Representatives About GSC Overview Executive Officers Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC Committees Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Association of Student Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Muddy Charles Pub Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity General Council Representatives Overview List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy Programs & Initiatives Backup Child Care 2013 Career Fair Legislative Action Graduate Student Cost of Living Graduate Women (GWAMIT) GradRat NAGPS Institute Awards Advising Grad School 101 & 102 Professional Development Series Academic Career Series More >> Funding Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Council Application Institute Representatives Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Resources Anno Submissions Subscribe to the Anno GSC Logo Past Initiatives Past Meeting Records Rental Equipment News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) External Coverage Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events Contact Us Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Graduate Student Group Start-up Fund GSC Collaboration Award   Representatives   Each GSC Representatives is eligible for a funding up to $250 per period (Fall and Spring).  The finding must be used for events or capital equipment expenses targeted towards the Representatives’ constituencies (department, dormitory, or otherwise). The Fall period covers October 16 to February 15, and the Spring period covers February 16 to October 15. In order to be eligible for $150 per period, the Representative must: have attended at least two General Council Meetings and more than half the General Council Meetings since the beginning of his/her term; In order to be eligible for $250 per period, the Representative must: be eligible for $150 per period have participated at a level beyond solely attending GSC General Council Meetings in the funding period Guidelines on the expenditures: Funding will be disbursed in the form of personal reimbursement to the Council reps. At no point can we accept transfer between MIT accounts. You can apply for as many events or items as you want, as long as the total amount does not pass the fund you are eligible for in that period. Capital items have to be available to all the graduate students in the constituency and cannot be used for personal purposes. Events must be open to all graduate students within the representative’s constituency, and should be designed to provide a social atmosphere apart from the typical realms of the classroom and laboratory. Funds may be used for food, beverages, paper goods, entertainment, and other expenses related to the event, subject to the Institute and GSC Alcohol Policies. Up to $5 / person will be reimbursed for food expense. The events should be held at a time and place that promotes maximum attendance from each constituency involved. Events must be advertised to the entire participating constituency including the GSC logo. Submit the Representative Event Funding Form for approval at least two weeks before the event.  If you have questions, contact the GSC Vice President (gsc-vice-president[at]mit[dot]edu) before submitting the form. Keep all the receipts related to the expenses. Only original itemized receipts will be reimbursed. A credit card receipt without itemization is not sufficient. Sales tax will not be reimbursed. Get a copy of the ST-2 and ST-5 forms from MIT Procurement.   GSC Sponsored Events  Christians on Campus Spring BBQ Tuesday, April 21 11:00am - 4:00pm Screening: Immigrant America Thursday, April 23 6:00pm - 7:30pm Karaoke! (Thirsty Ear Pub) Thursday, April 23 7:30pm - 11:59pm Waste Research and Innovation Night Friday, April 24 7:00pm - 9:00pm CAST Ping Pong Tournament Saturday, April 25 6:30pm - 8:30pm Tang Sushi Social Saturday, April 25 7:00pm - 9:00pm Game of Thrones Viewing Party Sunday, April 26 9:00pm - 10:00pm   Recent News  Announcement: 2015-2016 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is happy to inform all MIT graduate students that after partnership and collaboration between the... Make a Difference on the Graduate Student Council! Are you interested in making a difference at MIT? Do you want to have a say in a $500,000-a-year budget?... Costco Card Program The GSC is proud to announce the launch of the Costco Card program, which allows any graduate student to borrow...  Go To Top » Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Contact Meeting Records Subscribe to RSS Feeds ExComm Login © MIT Graduate Student Council
