MIT Graduate Student Council || Funding Board
MIT Graduate Student Council ||   Funding Board About GSC Overview Executive Officers Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC Committees Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Association of Student Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Muddy Charles Pub Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity General Council Representatives Overview List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy Programs & Initiatives Backup Child Care 2013 Career Fair Legislative Action Graduate Student Cost of Living Graduate Women (GWAMIT) GradRat NAGPS Institute Awards Advising Grad School 101 & 102 Professional Development Series Academic Career Series More >> Funding Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Council Application Institute Representatives Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Resources Anno Submissions Subscribe to the Anno GSC Logo Past Initiatives Past Meeting Records Rental Equipment News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) External Coverage Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events Contact Us Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity   Funding Board Shabnam Raayai-Ardakani 2014-2015 Funding Board Chair The GSC Funding Board is charged with the responsibility of deciding how to allocate the $130,000 given annually to the GSC to fund events, capital expenses, and competitive expenses requested by ASA-recognized graduate student groups. In addition to the GSC Treasurer who is the chair of the Funding Board, the Board consists of the GSC President, a representative from the GSC Activities Committee, the ASA Treasurer, an ASA Graduate Student Member-at-Large, and a GSC Council Member. The Appeals Board consists of the GSC Treasurer, the GSC Vice-President, and an ASA Graduate Student Member-at-Large. While Funding Board meetings are sometimes long, they allow the members to learn about the many graduate student groups and what they do. To find out more about how you can get involved on the Funding Board, contact gsc-treasurer[at]mit[dot]edu. The Funding Board meets four times each year for regular allocations meetings and up to four additional times for appeals meetings. Important dates will be posted on the student group funding webpage and the GSC Treasurer will send them over the Funding Board e-mail list. Contact gsc-treasurer[at]mit[dot]edu to be added to this list or for answers to general Funding Board questions. Please visit the funding webpage for other funding opportunities with the GSC. Current Funding Periods Period Dates Allocation Round 1 Meeting Round 2 Meeting Summer/Fall July – December ~ 85K June September IAP / Spring January – June ~ 85K December February   GSC Sponsored Events  Christians on Campus Spring BBQ Tuesday, April 21 11:00am - 4:00pm Screening: Immigrant America Thursday, April 23 6:00pm - 7:30pm Karaoke! (Thirsty Ear Pub) Thursday, April 23 7:30pm - 11:59pm Waste Research and Innovation Night Friday, April 24 7:00pm - 9:00pm CAST Ping Pong Tournament Saturday, April 25 6:30pm - 8:30pm Tang Sushi Social Saturday, April 25 7:00pm - 9:00pm Game of Thrones Viewing Party Sunday, April 26 9:00pm - 10:00pm   Recent News  Announcement: 2015-2016 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is happy to inform all MIT graduate students that after partnership and collaboration between the... Make a Difference on the Graduate Student Council! Are you interested in making a difference at MIT? Do you want to have a say in a $500,000-a-year budget?... Costco Card Program The GSC is proud to announce the launch of the Costco Card program, which allows any graduate student to borrow...  Go To Top » Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Contact Meeting Records Subscribe to RSS Feeds ExComm Login © MIT Graduate Student Council
