MIT Graduate Student Council || Travel Grant
MIT Graduate Student Council ||   Travel Grant About GSC Overview Executive Officers Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC Committees Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Association of Student Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Muddy Charles Pub Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity General Council Representatives Overview List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy Programs & Initiatives Backup Child Care 2013 Career Fair Legislative Action Graduate Student Cost of Living Graduate Women (GWAMIT) GradRat NAGPS Institute Awards Advising Grad School 101 & 102 Professional Development Series Academic Career Series More >> Funding Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Council Application Institute Representatives Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Resources Anno Submissions Subscribe to the Anno GSC Logo Past Initiatives Past Meeting Records Rental Equipment News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) External Coverage Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events Contact Us Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Graduate Student Group Start-up Fund GSC Collaboration Award   Travel Grant GSC Travel Fund Grant Program The Travel Fund Grant was reactivated in 2006. It is designed to support the conference-related travel expenses of MIT graduate students in all Schools throughout the Institute. Specifically, this fund is allocated to conference travel expenses that are not currently funded by the student’s advisor or other MIT-related funding. The fund provides grant money for most conference-related expenses including lodging. Questions? Address questions to Monika Avello at gsc-travel[at]mit[dot]edu. GSC Travel Grant Criteria The Travel Grant is provided for domestic or international travel for the following purposes: Travel to an academic or industry-related conference where the grantee will present a poster or paper Travel to an academic or industry-related conference where the grantee will participate or is invited as a panelist or discussant One grant will be awarded per graduate student per academic year (Fall, Spring, Summer) with a ceiling of $1000. Grant applications must be received (or the GSC must be notified) at least two weeks before the student attends the conference. If you are a recipient of a Travel Grant, you will be directed to contact the GSC Financial Administrator for reimbursement for your expenses. All expenses are reimbursable, and travel advances will not be granted. Food expenses during the conference period are reimbursable up to $30 per day if meals are not included as part of the conference package. Original receipts and a copy of the conference proceeding must be submitted. Proposals are reviewed on the basis of the following criteria: the extent to which the research or conference travel is currently unfunded or unsupported by the applicant?s advisor, department, or the larger Institute; the degree to which the activity will enhance the academic experience of the MIT graduate student and/or expand his/her networks of linkages with other leading scholars or institutions. the academic and professional merit of the candidate. Application Procedures Please complete the electronic application form. Ask your referee to submit a letter of recommendation here. GSC Travel Fund Grant Timeline The GSC Travel Grant Applications are invited thrice a year: Fall, Spring and Summer. Funding Period Application Deadline Date of Notification Period Covered Fall October 01 October 14 September 15 – February 29 Spring February 15 March 7 February 15 – June 15 Summer June 1 June 15 May 15 – October 15 (Periods covered overlap by 1 month. Only 1 submission per conference per student per year permitted during February 15 – March 15, May 15 – June 15, September 15 – October 15) Statistics from past allocations Here is a link to summary statistics from past travel grant allocations. FAQ What kind of things are you looking for in my application? We realize that all conferences, disciplines, departments, etc. are not created equal, so there is no one “correct” application. That said, however, applicants who are primary authors giving a talk typically will have a slight (though not definitive) advantage. Other qualifications such as recommendation letters will be taken into account as well. By far the most important criterion is conference impact—so be sure that you and your referee have a good way to verbalize that. How is my application reviewed? There will be a panel of reviewers. Each reviewer will get to read your application and independently score it from a rubric. The composite score from all reviewers will be ranked, which determines the priority of an applicant’s funding. How competitive is the process? Our aim is to fund as many applicants as possible. Unfortunately, travel is not the cheapest thing to fund, and given our budget constraints, we typically are able to fund about 40% of all applications. My application was denied funding. Can you tell me why? As you can see from our judging process described above, there are many factors at play that it is rather unlikely for a single factor to determine to an application’s acceptance or denial. For example, even if a reviewer deems an aspect of your application to be unfavorable, this does not necessarily preclude you from being funded, and vice versa. So we are afraid that we typically do not have an answer. How do I get reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses? We encourage you to use a paperless system to get reimbursed. See instructions in the next section below. Acceptance Contract If you are awarded a GSC Travel Grant, you will be asked to sign a contract where you will: 1. Participate in the GSC travel grant review committee for the following one round. 2. Report to the GSC any additional forms of funding received for the conference. 3. Provide a short summary of conference outcome and experience to the GSC (email to gsc-travel at mit dot edu). 4. Remit all receipts pertaining to conference travel by the reimbursement deadline. Failure to comply with these items may render you ineligible for reimbursement. Reimbursement Procedures Please use MIT’s electronic reimbursement system (Concur) for your out-of-pocket expenses. Once the reimbursement is approved, you will receive funds in direct deposit* (if information is on file at HR/payroll). *Not sure if you’ve set up direct deposit? See instructions below for checking & entering your information on ATLAS. Setting up Direct Deposit: Go to ATLAS (https://atlas.mit.edu/) Click on upper tab “ABOUT ME” Under “Money Matters”, click on “Direct Deposit Preferences” If you have direct deposit set up, it should be listed there. If not, follow the instructions on site to complete set-up. Reimbursement Instructions Getting to MIT Concur: Go to ATLAS (https://atlas.mit.edu/) Under “Menu”, click on “Full Catalog” Click on “Travel Expenses (Concur)” under the “Travel” category Filing an Expense Report: Under Expense tab, click “New Expense Report”, & fill out information. Important! For the Report Name type “Travel Grant”, followed by the semester,  year, & your first and last name. (ex. Travel Grant Summer 2014 Monika Avello) Type in Cost Object # 1735290. Confused? If you require detailed instructions on how to use this electronic system, check out the 3 options below: Online instructions provided at http://www.concurtraining.com/customers/mit/. Visit a drop-in training session that happens every Wednesday 10-11 a.m. in the Little Cayman Training Room (NE49, floor 3). Contact Imani Ivery (imani[at]mit[dot]edu) for all questions regarding the reimbursement procedure. Follow-up You’ve submitted your reimbursement online. Now what? Submit a hardcopy of your conference report & the original, detailed receipts to Imani Ivery, at 50-220. Note: For food receipts, alcoholic purchases CANNOT be reimbursed. For airfare receipts, ONLY coach or economy seats are reimbursable (no upgrades, business class, etc). Want to know the status of your reimbursement? Set up email notifications on ATLAS (A) or check directly (B). (A) Email Notification Set-up: Go to ATLAS homepage (https://atlas.mit.edu/) Click on upper tab “ABOUT ME” Under “My Profile”, click “Settings & Authorizations” Select your preferences under “Email Notification Settings” (B)  Directly checking reimbursement status: Go to ATLAS homepage (https://atlas.mit.edu/) Under Menu, go to “My Reimbursements”, and click “Track My Reimbursements” Under “Details” tab, click “Comments”. Imani leaves notes here if there are any issues regarding your reimbursement. (C) Tracking the status of your reimbursements: Go to ATLAS homepage (https://atlas.mit.edu/) Click on lower tab “FULL CATALOG” Under My Reimbursements, go to “Track My Reimbursements”. All of the reimbursements that you have submitted for payment will be listed and the status of each reimbursement will be listed also.           Travel Grant Home About GSC Officers Overview Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Bylaws Amendments Annual Reports of the GSC 2012-2013 Annual Report 2011-2012 Annual Report 2010-2011 Annual Report 2009-2010 Annual Report 2008-2009 Annual Report 2007-2008 Annual Report 2006-2007 Annual Report 2005-2006 Annual Report 2004-2005 Annual Report Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Committees & Boards Academics, Research, & Careers Graduate Women (GWAMIT) Legislative Action Subcommittee Digital Learning Subcommittee Activities GradRat Past event: Nature Day at Boston Harbor Island! Past event: MIT/WHOI Summer Picnic and Beach Day! Past event: Frendsie Frenzy II !! Past event: MIT-Harvard Halloween Party: Mad Science Upcoming: Grad Coffee Hour Three Dollar Tuesday Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs HCA: Cost of Living HCA: Family Subcommittee HCA: Childcare GSC-MIT Backup Childcare Program HCA: Childbirth Accommodation Policy HCA: Off Campus HCA: Sustainability Subcommittee Nominations Board Institute Committee Representatives Institute Committees Institute Representative Reporting Form 2013-2014 Institute Committee Rep Application – New Positions Open Apply to Ad Hoc Institute Committees Call for Applications (2013-2014 Institute Committee – Ongoing) 2014-2015 Institute Committee Rep Application Orientation Publications and Publicity Programs & Initiatives Academic Career Series Advising Dissertation Boot Camp Grad School 101 & 102 Institute Awards Institute Awards Nominations Graduate Community Space Graduate Community Space – Photo Competition Forum on Graduate Community Space Life In Between Graduate Student Cost of Living Professional Development Series GSC International Student Mentorship Program NAGPS MIT President Search MIT President Search – Online Comments MIT President Search – Public Report Somerville Shuttle – Pilot Program Leadership Development Funding Budget Payments GSC Finance – Check to Vendor Request GSC Finance – Purchase Order Request GSC Representative Event Funding Form Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Publicity Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Travel Grant Application Form Travel Grant Letter of Recommendation Submission Form Graduate Student Group Start-up Fund GSC Collaboration Award Resources Anno Submissions Anno Example Announcement GSC Logo Past Initiatives Sustainability Task Force Diversity Task Force DTF – Presidential Diversity Ambassadors Task Force on Taxation Leadership Evolution for Graduate Students (LEGS) Graduate Pass/D/Fail Option – FAQ Students for Graduate Curriculum Options Past Meeting Records 2008-2009 Meeting Records 2009-2010 Meeting Records 2010-2011 Meeting Records 2011-2012 Meeting Records Rental Equipment Equipment Rental Form News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events General Council Council Representatives Overview FAQ on Council Representatives Application for Graduate Student Council Representative List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy 2012 MIT Commencement – Speaker Suggestions Contact Us testpage Funding Board Application for Student Groups Ivy Summit 2011 Ivy+ Summit 2011 Hotel Maps Proposals Schedule Campus Wireless Ivy Summit – MIT Volunteers Credit Card Policy GSC Startup Fund Applications GSC collaboration Award Joint Student Task Force on Presidential Search External Coverage 2013 GSC Webmaster Application PTAC 2012 Application The Graduate: AFTER LIFE – Article Submissions GSC Food Ordering System Graduate Community Wellness 2013 Career Fair 2011 Grad School 101/102 Orientation Resources Kendall Rezoning Forum Childcare Orientation Redirect GSC Arts Subcommittee Chancellor Search 2013 – We need your input! Submit Your GSC Surplus Reinvestment Idea GSC Mobile Developer Application TEST2014 Cambridge Recycling & Waste Privacy Policy Two Dollar Tuesday – Registration Group Change GSC Sponsored Events  Christians on Campus Spring BBQ Tuesday, April 21 11:00am - 4:00pm Screening: Immigrant America Thursday, April 23 6:00pm - 7:30pm Karaoke! (Thirsty Ear Pub) Thursday, April 23 7:30pm - 11:59pm Waste Research and Innovation Night Friday, April 24 7:00pm - 9:00pm CAST Ping Pong Tournament Saturday, April 25 6:30pm - 8:30pm Tang Sushi Social Saturday, April 25 7:00pm - 9:00pm Game of Thrones Viewing Party Sunday, April 26 9:00pm - 10:00pm   Recent News  Announcement: 2015-2016 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is happy to inform all MIT graduate students that after partnership and collaboration between the... Make a Difference on the Graduate Student Council! Are you interested in making a difference at MIT? Do you want to have a say in a $500,000-a-year budget?... Costco Card Program The GSC is proud to announce the launch of the Costco Card program, which allows any graduate student to borrow...  Go To Top » Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Contact Meeting Records Subscribe to RSS Feeds ExComm Login © MIT Graduate Student Council
