MIT Graduate Student Council || Announcement: 2015-2016 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase
MIT Graduate Student Council ||   Announcement: 2015-2016 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase About GSC Overview Executive Officers Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC Committees Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Association of Student Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Muddy Charles Pub Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity General Council Representatives Overview List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy Programs & Initiatives Backup Child Care 2013 Career Fair Legislative Action Graduate Student Cost of Living Graduate Women (GWAMIT) GradRat NAGPS Institute Awards Advising Grad School 101 & 102 Professional Development Series Academic Career Series More >> Funding Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Council Application Institute Representatives Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Resources Anno Submissions Subscribe to the Anno GSC Logo Past Initiatives Past Meeting Records Rental Equipment News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) External Coverage Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events Contact Us Make a Difference on the Graduate Student Council! Announcement: 2015-2016 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase On April 8, 2015, in GSC, by Secretary The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is happy to inform all MIT graduate students that after partnership and collaboration between the GSC Housing and Community Affairs Committee and the Office of the Dean for Graduate Education (ODGE), graduate student stipend levels will be increased an average of 3.7% for the upcoming academic year. The GSC Housing and Community Affairs Committee, led by Boris Braverman and Andrea Dubin, developed a detailed cost-of-living analysis which was instrumental in aiding the establishment of the new stipend levels. The committee analyzed student expenses, local market trends, and national price indices to calculate the cost-of-living increase which was presented to the Advisory Committee on Graduate Stipends. This information helped the Advisory Committee on Graduate Stipend determine its recommended increase in graduate stipend levels. If you are interested in learning more or becoming involved with the GSC Housing and Community Affairs Committee, please visit http://gsc.mit.edu/committees/hca/. You can also visit the stipend committee website here.   If you enjoyed this article, please consider sharing it! News Tags  General GSC Live Play Uncategorized Work   Events & Meetings  MIT Earth Days Tuesday, April 21 12:00am - 11:59pm GSC Sustinability Meeting Tuesday, April 21 5:00pm - 6:00pm MIT Earth Days Wednesday, April 22 12:00am - 11:59pm MIT Earth Days Thursday, April 23 12:00am - 11:59pm MIT Earth Days Friday, April 24 12:00am - 11:59pm   Recent News  Announcement: 2015-2016 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is happy to inform all MIT graduate students that after partnership and collaboration between the... Make a Difference on the Graduate Student Council! Are you interested in making a difference at MIT? Do you want to have a say in a $500,000-a-year budget?... Costco Card Program The GSC is proud to announce the launch of the Costco Card program, which allows any graduate student to borrow...  Go To Top » Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Contact Meeting Records Subscribe to RSS Feeds ExComm Login © MIT Graduate Student Council
