MIT Graduate Student Council || GSC Logo
MIT Graduate Student Council ||    GSC Logo About GSC Overview Executive Officers Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC Committees Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Association of Student Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Muddy Charles Pub Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity General Council Representatives Overview List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy Programs & Initiatives Backup Child Care 2013 Career Fair Legislative Action Graduate Student Cost of Living Graduate Women (GWAMIT) GradRat NAGPS Institute Awards Advising Grad School 101 & 102 Professional Development Series Academic Career Series More >> Funding Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Council Application Institute Representatives Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Resources Anno Submissions Subscribe to the Anno GSC Logo Past Initiatives Past Meeting Records Rental Equipment News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) External Coverage Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events Contact Us Anno Submissions GSC Logo Past Initiatives Past Meeting Records Rental Equipment   GSC Logo Harnessing the power of the GSC logo Each of the logo formats below is tested, easy to work with, and a component of the official GSC graphic identity. The logos on this page are in three formats. If you will be using the logo in files being professionally designed for offset or digital printing, or when using LaTeX, select the EPS format. If you will be using the logo in files being created in Word or PowerPoint, or for other internal office use, select the JPEG format.  For logo usage on websites or electronic media, select the PNG format. The downloads are JPEG and PNG files for use on all platforms and Adobe Illustrator EPS (Encapsulated PostScript™) files. EPS is the recommended file format when using the LaTeX program. If the logo is being used for an event sponsored through the GSC Funding Board, please use Style 3.     Style 1     Download     EPS White Background JPEG White Background PNG White Background       Style 2     Download     EPS Black Background White Background     JPEG Black Background White Background   PNG Black Background White Background       Style 3 For Groups funded by GSC Funding Board  Download     EPS Black Background White Background   JPEG Black Background White Background   PNG Black Background White Background     Events & Meetings  MIT Earth Days Tuesday, April 21 12:00am - 11:59pm GSC Sustinability Meeting Tuesday, April 21 5:00pm - 6:00pm MIT Earth Days Wednesday, April 22 12:00am - 11:59pm MIT Earth Days Thursday, April 23 12:00am - 11:59pm MIT Earth Days Friday, April 24 12:00am - 11:59pm   Recent News  Announcement: 2015-2016 Graduate Cost-of-Living Stipend Increase The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is happy to inform all MIT graduate students that after partnership and collaboration between the... Make a Difference on the Graduate Student Council! Are you interested in making a difference at MIT? Do you want to have a say in a $500,000-a-year budget?... Costco Card Program The GSC is proud to announce the launch of the Costco Card program, which allows any graduate student to borrow...  Go To Top » Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Contact Meeting Records Subscribe to RSS Feeds ExComm Login © MIT Graduate Student Council
