MIT Graduate Student Council || Overview
MIT Graduate Student Council ||   Overview About GSC Overview Executive Officers Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC Committees Academics, Research, & Careers Activities Association of Student Activities Funding Board Housing & Community Affairs Muddy Charles Pub Nominations Board Orientation Publications and Publicity General Council Representatives Overview List of Council Representatives Agendas & Minutes Submit a Proxy Programs & Initiatives Backup Child Care 2013 Career Fair Legislative Action Graduate Student Cost of Living Graduate Women (GWAMIT) GradRat NAGPS Institute Awards Advising Grad School 101 & 102 Professional Development Series Academic Career Series More >> Funding Budget Payments Athletic & Performance Grant Representatives Groups Funding Guidelines Service Fund Sustainability Fund Outreach Grant Travel Grant Get Involved Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Application Council Application Institute Representatives Officer and Executive Committee Elections Create Initiative Resources Anno Submissions Subscribe to the Anno GSC Logo Past Initiatives Past Meeting Records Rental Equipment News & Events News Publications (The Graduate) External Coverage Upcoming Events & Meetings GSC Events GSC Meetings GSC Sponsored Events Contact Us Officers Overview Office & Staff Hours Governing Documents Annual Reports of the GSC   (click to enlarge) MIT Graduate Student Council (GSC) Overview The GSC General Council is the representative body of graduate students at MIT and meets on the first Wednesday of every month at 5:30PM.  The GSC is led by the Executive Committee and has various committees and boards to address graduate student issues Overview The committees of the Graduate Student Council work to address student needs in a variety of areas. Each committee is chaired by one or two people and meets roughly once per month. These committees are the avenues by which the GSC accomplishes the majority of its mission. The 13 standing committee chairs form the Executive Committee, which is chaired by the President. Academics, Research, & Careers Committee The ARC committee is responsible for developing and running programs, including the career fair, the professional development series, and mentorship programs, aimed at creating a better academic environment for students at MIT. ARC additionally advocates on several academically and diversity oriented issues. Activities Committee This committee plans, organizes and coordinates a number of social events both on and off campus for graduate students at MIT. The range of events is diverse enough to cater to all segments of the population. Association of Student Activities A joint committee between the Undergraduate Association (UA) and GSC, the ASA is the official body which recognizes, governs, and represents all Student Activities at MIT. Funding Board The Funding Board convenes to vote on funding graduate student activities on a semester-by-semester basis for events designed for the entire graduate student body. Housing & Community Affairs Committee The HCA is the primary advocacy branch of the GSC on all student life issues, including housing and rents, stipends, health services and insurance, transportation, safety, athletics, and related matters. Muddy Charles Pub The Muddy Charles Pub is located in the east corner of the ground floor of the Walker Memorial Building and is a popular watering hole for stressed out students. Nominations Board The purpose of the Nominations Committee is to nominate graduate students to institute committees. The Committee is chaired by the GSC Vice-President Orientation Committee This committee is responsible for planning the Institute’s official Graduate Student Orientation – a series of events designed to welcome new graduate students to MIT at the beginning of the school term. Publications & Publicity Board The P&P Board is responsible for disseminating information to the graduate student through a variety of means, including the monthly Graduate Student News   Go To Top » Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Contact Meeting Records Subscribe to RSS Feeds ExComm Login © MIT Graduate Student Council
