msrp alumn | Office of the Dean for Graduate Education
msrp alumn | Office of the Dean for Graduate Education Search About ODGE Staff Organization (PDF) Current Ad-Hoc Committees Sponsored by ODGE 2015 Advisory Committee on Graduate Stipends Committee on Student Entrepreneurship (CSE) Graduate Admissions Team Student & Affiliates Health Insurance Advisory Committee Task Force on the Future of Graduate Education in the Context of MITx (TFGEM) Task Force on Graduate Student Professional Development (TFPRO) Working Group on International Student Support (WGISS) ODGE Participation Graduate Student Housing Working Group Services Strategic Plan One-page summary (PDF) Letter from the Dean (PDF) Supporting Educational Innovation and Excellence (PDF) Competitiveness in Graduate Funding (PDF) Administration and Policy (PDF) Diversity and Climate (PDF) Holistic Graduate Student Experience (PDF) Report to the President Grad Facts News & video Graduate Policies & Procedures Admissions & Registration Student status Regular student International student Listener Special student Part time status Nonresident status Visiting student Exchange scholar Transfer student Institute research staff Registration requirements Status of registration Retention of student status Medical report requirement Credit Academic terms Tuition and fees Changes in registration Add/drop Medical withdrawal Medical withdrawal: policy Medical withdrawal: procedure Personal leave Childbirth accommodation (“Maternity leave”) Leave for U.S. National Service Withdrawal, readmission Denials of further registration Registration holds Cross registration Harvard University Wellesley College Partnerships & exchanges Graduate Consortium in Women’s Studies MIT International Science and Technology Initiatives Exchange Scholar Program Cambridge-MIT Institute Harvard-MIT Health Sciences and Technology Other interdisciplinary study and research Academic performance Graduate academic standards Grades Cumulative rating Subject credits and designations Grade reports and transcripts Advanced Degrees Master’s degree Master of Science Master of Engineering Master of Architecture Master in City Planning Master of Business Administration Master of Finance Simultaneous registration for two master’s degrees Simultaneous award of bachelor’s and master’s degrees Engineer’s degree Doctoral degree Minor Program Language proficiency Interdepartmental programs Interdepartmental doctoral degree program Interdepartmental engineer’s degree program Interdepartmental master’s degree program Thesis Joint theses Restrictions on thesis publication Patent protection Government restrictions Privacy and security Thesis research in absentia Nonresident doctoral thesis research status Preparation of graduate theses Copyright Intellectual property policy Thesis hold Degrees offered Award of degrees Diploma format Financial Assistance Awards Applying Accepting RA/TA appointments Instructor-G and teaching assistants Research assistants Draper Fellows Terms of appointment Tuition and stipend payments Termination Registration Graduate resident tutors Other employment International students Job listings Conflict of interest, commitment Loans Faculty Oversight Departmental committees Committee on Graduate Programs Graduate officers Graduate administrators Petitions Roles & Relationships Roles Student and faculty Department Institute Appointments to teaching and research staffs Student leadership Academic integrity Professional & personal development Graduate Personal Support (GPS) Other resources Career planning Professional development video portal (PRO-DEPOT) Path of Professorship 2014 Program Application 2012 Photo Gallery Teaching at MIT Writing Student Snapshots Student finances Loans Fellowships External fellowships Fellowships for internationals Presidential Graduate Fellowship Program ODGE Fellowships ODGE Awards Study abroad grants Sample fellowship budget Other resources Dental Coverage MIT PPO Value Plan Summary MIT Plan Frequently Asked Questions DeltaCare Plan & PPO Plus Premier Plan Summary Plan comparison RA & TA appointments Support for activities & community Taxes Tuition & fees Get involved with community Committed to Caring C2C Nomination Form John Belcher Harry Lee Brent Ryan Kay Tye Fund for Graduate Community Graduate Community Fellows Current Fellow positions Request a new Fellow position Graduate Student Life Grants Follow the guidelines Write your proposal Stay in touch Market your events Report on progress Sample budget Check other resources Funded projects Model programs Ongoing Funded in 2013-14 Funded in 2012-13 Funded in 2011-12 Funded in 2010-11 Funded in 2009-10 Funded in 2008-09 Funded in 2007-08 Funded in 2006-07 Funded in 2005-06 Funded in 2004-05 Funded in 2003-04 Funded in 2002-03 Power Lunch Programs and Resources for Women Celebration of graduate women Resources for grad families Add the “Grad Friendly” logo to your event Undergraduate outreach MIT Summer Research Program Application Qualifications Frequently Asked Questions Alumni News 2014 MRSP Interns Mayela Aldaz Sara Arussy Rebecca Betances Gerardo Bledt Keeisi Caballero Aaron Castellanos Tzu-Yu Chao Steven Chavez Angela Chen Darwin Cordovilla Gustavo Del Aguila II Ilyssa Evans Khalil Hill Michael Ising Mina Khan Everlyne Kimani Grace Lim Allison Martinez-Arocho Sirak Mekonen Elizabeth Melton Andrew Mendez Daryl Painton Donnell Pinder Ángel Placeres Erick Romo-Mendoza Aura Salazar Jose Salcedo Perez Samalis Santini Kelvin Smith Nicole Sonnert Michael Statt Leila Terrab Thibault Twahirwa Elias Valdivia Christian Vazquez 2013 MSRP Interns Jose L. Acevedo Mayela Aldaz North Asmare Elizabeth Berrigan Jacquelyn Boudle Chanell Boyd Julian Brathwaite Darwin Cordovilla Kristin Dettmers Venisa Dodi Keiron Durant Daniela Espinosa Roberto Falcon Sebastian Gomez Kenneth Gutierrez Edward Guzman Julie Hofstra Erenis Lemus Alexander Limia Alyssa Loving Florise Luc Papakyriakou Marc Nathan Martin Chelsea McConnell Sirak Mekonen Andrew Mendez Marco Messina Rudo Mudzi Yves Nazon II Kemi Oyewole Kristina Pardo Monica Perez Radamés Ríos-González Jesus Salas Angel J. Santiago-Lopez Adriana Santiago-Miranda Michelle Shu Kate Sundheim Bethel Tarekegne Miguel Twahirwa Luis Valle Katrina Williamson 2012 MSRP Interns Manuel Ahumada Michael Alemayehu Ronald Alexander Luis Alvarez Victor Calderon Arrivillaga Angel Asante Edward Bello Sarah Cameron Bernardo Cervantes Grace Christenbery Laura López Cruz Eshan Dahal Darrel Deo Ohiremen Dibua Gilles Dongmo-Momo Daniel Drew Mauricio Flores Brittany Grassbaugh Kenneth Gutierrez Edward Guzman La’Toya James Nicole Love Choolwe Mandona Adan Medina Priya Moni Moises Montalvo Lafontaine Arnaldo Negron Marty Adesuwa Nosakhare Irving Olmedo Ramiro Piñón Alex M. Suarez Bethel Tarekegne Andira Ramos Katarina Sirka Soraya Terrab Miguel de la Salle R. Twahirwa Ken Wilson Asia Wyatt CONVERGE Conferences Resources Tag Archives: msrp alumn July 24, 2014 Llorens-Bonilla designs two extra robotic arms for you Most of the robotic limbs you hear about are meant to replace arms and legs that have been lost to injury, but MIT is working on robotic limbs that are just meant to add on additional ones, giving people three or four arms so that they can get more done. Its researchers demonstrated the limbs — which they call supernumerary robotic arms — at a conference yesterday in China, and videos show that they’re already working to a basic extent. The current suit reportedly weighs just 10 pounds, but right now it seems to mainly be useful for holding light objects in place. “Once we combine the most significant behavioral modes we are able to control the robot such that, from the wearer’s perspective, it behaves like an extension of his own body,” Baldin Llorens-Bonilla, an MIT researcher working on robotic limbs, tells IEEE Spectrum. Continue reading about his research on The Verge. July 8, 2014 NSE’s Lulu Li wins best poster award at CASL workshop Lulu Li, a graduate student in nuclear science and engineering, has won the award for the best poster presented at the 2014 CASL Annual Education Workshop. Li’s poster described a new physics-based multigrid acceleration method implemented and tested in the OpenMOC framework. At MIT, Li works with professors Kord Smith and Benoit Forget in the Computational Reactor Physics Group (CRPG). CRPG focuses on computational physics methods for modeling and simulation of nuclear reactor cores, including reactor physics analysis methods, core loading design and optimization, and transient safety analysis. Continue reading this article on MIT News. Photo by Justin Knight. July 1, 2014 Robinson focuses on research in nuclear security When she was accepted into the undergraduate business program at Florida A&M University (FAMU), Mareena Robinson thought she had her future all figured out: She would go to law school and become an attorney, like her father, or else a businesswoman. But when she and her father arrived on campus at the beginning of freshman year, he made an offer the self-described “obedient daughter” couldn’t refuse: to pay a visit to the physics department, where he had a distant connection to a friend-of-a-friend. “I said, ‘OK, I’ll just check it out,’” Robinson says. “I had no intention of going into physics. But when I got up there they treated me like a football player.” Continue reading at MIT News. May 13, 2014 MSRP/CONVERGE Alumni Become NSF Graduate Research Fellows Nine of the 2013 MIT Summer Research Program (MSRP) alumni and a CONVERGE alum have been awarded National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowships to begin their graduate programs: Kristin Dettmers – incoming MIT Math PhD student Roberto Falcon – incoming Berkeley student Edward Guzman – incoming Harvard student Julie Hofstra – incoming CalTech student Brett Lopez – incoming MIT Aero/Astro PhD student (CONVERGE alumnus) Kemi Oyewole – incoming MIT Economics PhD student Kristina Pardo – incoming Princeton student Monica Perez-Cuevas – incoming GA Tech student Angel Santiago-Lopez – incoming GA Tech student Cesar Torres – current UC Berkeley PhD student The National Science Foundation’s Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP) recognizes and supports outstanding graduate students in NSF-supported science, technology, engineering, and mathematics disciplines who are pursuing research-based master’s and doctoral degrees at accredited US institutions.  Professor Patricia Ordoñez of the University of Puerto Rico Rio Piedras and Dr. Frances Carter-Johnson of Evaluation and Assessment Solutions, have worked with the MSRP interns for the past 7 years on crafting strong NSF applications.  Congratulations to the awardees! February 19, 2014 Mareena Robinson speaks at 2014 MLK Celebration Mareena Robinson, a two time alum of the MIT Summer Research Program and PhD candidate in Nuclear Science and Engineering, was the graduate student speaker during the 2014 MLK Celebration.  The event also featured the MIT Gospel Choir and an Invocation by Rev. Rahsaan Hall.  The MLK Celebration is an assembly of speakers, presentations and song which serve to inspire the community to rededicate to the vision of Dr. King. Read more about Robinson and the event on MIT news; click “Read more” to see a video excerpt from the Celebration (Robinson’s talk begins at 14:40). Read more December 9, 2013 MSRP alum Gamboa interviews groundbreaking scientist and alumna Villa-Komaroff As a part Roadtrip Nation, a movement that empowers people to travel the country and speak with leaders from across disciplines, MSRP alum Jackie Gamboa joined two other inquisitive travelers for a journey from California to Massachusetts. In the course of their trip, Gamboa and her fellow travelers met with MIT graduate alum Lydia Villa-Komaroff – the third Mexican-American woman to earn a PhD in the United States and co-founder of SACNAS, the Society for Advancement of Chicanos and Native Americans in Science. View a video of this inspiring interview online at Roadtrip Nation’s website. November 15, 2013 MSRP Alum Gopeesingh named Rhodes Scholar finalist MSRP Alum and Hampton University senior Josh Gopeesingh (Chemical Engineering) has been named a finalist for the prestigious Rhodes Scholarship. He will interview in Barbados on November 23rd. Out of approximately 1,000 applicants who are endorsed by their respective universities, only 200 achieve finalist status. Rhodes Scholars further their studies at Oxford University in England. A native of Trinidad, Gopeesingh is a student in the Honors College and captain of the HU sailing team. He was awarded the Arthur Ashe, Jr. Sports Scholar Award this year as well. Gopeesingh has a 3.76 grade-point average and during the summer months has conducted research at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Syracuse University. Read more about Gopeesingh on the Hampton University News website. November 5, 2013 Meyer discovers new role for ‘hunger hormone’ About a dozen years ago, scientists discovered that a hormone called ghrelin enhances appetite. Dubbed the “hunger hormone,” ghrelin was quickly targeted by drug companies seeking treatments for obesity — none of which have yet panned out. MIT neuroscientists have now discovered that ghrelin’s role goes far beyond controlling hunger. The researchers found that ghrelin released during chronic stress makes the brain more vulnerable to traumatic events, suggesting that it may predispose people to posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). “Perhaps we could give people who are going to be deployed into an active combat zone a ghrelin vaccine before they go, so they will have a lower incidence of PTSD. That’s exciting because right now there’s nothing given to people to prevent PTSD,” says Goosens, who is also a member of MIT’s McGovern Institute for Brain Research. Lead author of the paper is Retsina Meyer, a recent MIT PhD recipient, 2009 Hugh Hampton Young Fellow, and former MSRP Program Assistant. Other authors are McGovern postdoc Anthony Burgos-Robles, graduate student Elizabeth Liu, and McGovern research scientist Susana Correia. Read the rest of the article on MIT News. October 1, 2013 Handy and the push to create a $30 portable brain recorder Whether it’s studying the potential for head impact injuries among young football players or adult soldiers, an intriguing area of research that’s gaining buzz is the brain. Imagine small sensors, tucked inside a baseball hat or helmet, which would record electrical activity along your scalp. Your brain wave data then would be collected by mobile devices, such as tablets and smartphones, so any head impacts could be analyzed on the spot for any serious injuries. “A low-cost EEG system can be part of a laboratory experiment that a 15-year-old might be able to do,” said Erik Handy, principal scientist at SI2 Technologies and MSRP alum. The small business—based in North Billerica, Mass., 25 miles outside Boston—is among four companies that have received federal DARPA funding to create complementary solutions. Continue reading about this project on the CNBC website. September 17, 2013 Nicholas explores intersection of law and business An 2008 alumna of the MIT Summer Research Program, Shanita Nicholas is currently in her second year of Columbia Law School’s three-year J.D./M.B.A. program. “Business and law are so interconnected,” she says. “To be able to study them at the same time and merge ideas is wonderful.” Her interest in the overlap and intersection of these two disciplines was piqued in 2010, while developing a paperless requisition process for the FBI as an IT consultant. “Being able to merge the two in ways that I’ve always thought of them as being related,” she explains, “and seeing how [that relationship] plays out in everyday life outside of academia, has been really interesting.” Read more on the Columbia Law School website. August 27, 2013 MSRP Alumnus Camilli embarks on Nautilus Expedition as Chief Scientist Dr. Richard Camilli is an Associate Scientist in the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution’s Department of Applied Ocean Physics and Engineering. Camilli is a former NOAA Aquanaut and Ocean Explorer; he has led or participated in over 40 major oceanographic expeditions throughout the world, been a crew member on over two dozen human occupied submersible operations, and logged several hundred hours of bottom time as a technical diver. He is currently Chief Scientist on the 2014 Nautilus expedition to document the myriad natural and cultural resources that lie in U.S. waters. Read more about Camilli and the 2014 Nautilus Expedition on the Nautilus Live website. July 17, 2013 Cyntrica Eaton on her life and work as a scientist Cyntrica Eaton, an alumna of the MIT Summer Research Program, sat down for an interview and answered questions on her life inspiration and her work as a scientist. The interview is featured by ScienceLives and the National Science Foundation. Cyntrica Eaton is an assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science at Norfolk State University in Virginia. She received her Ph.D. from the University of Maryland, College Park. She is the author of several publications, including A Framework for Detecting and Diagnosing Configuration Faults in Web Applications and Advances in Web Testing. Photo by NSF. Read more June 18, 2013 Pearlson: LAE researcher and co-founder of Bow-Tie startup MSRP Alumnus Matthew Pearlson does three things when he’s not making bow ties: 1. He is a research specialist in the MIT Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics working on renewable jet fuel for the commercial jet aviation industry. 2. He works at Citizens Energy Corporation running a project for our chairman, Joseph P. Kennedy II. The project provides solar electric systems for low-income families in Southern California’s Imperial Valley. This project helps over 100 households a year reduce their electric bill while allowing them to turn their air conditioning on in their homes. 3. He trains for long-distance running. A few years ago he ran the Boston Marathon as a “bandit,” which means he didn’t have a number but ran for fun. Continue reading Pearlson’s interview on JewishBoston, or more about his research on MIT’s Lab for Aviation and the Environment website. March 12, 2013 Alumna Silberman competes for a shot in the NFL MIT alumni are known for a “do-anything” mindset but Lauren Silberman SM ’10 may have set the loftiest goal yet. Despite not playing on the football team at MIT (or anywhere else), she is attempting to become the first Institute alum and first woman to play in the National Football League (NFL). Read more about Silberman on the MIT Alumni website. January 2, 2013 MSRP Alumnus Valencia Makes Forbes List Pedro Valencia PhD ’12, an alumnus of the MIT Summer Research Program, was named in the December 2012 Forbes 30 under 30: Science and Healthcare list as one rising stars who are transforming their fields. Valencia figured out how to more quickly synthesize nanoparticles that can be used to make drugs more effective and less toxic and to put multiple drugs inside the same nanotech medicine. His research led to many distinguished publications and a start-up Blend Therapeutics. Valencia earned his BS in chemical engineering from the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 2007, and completed his MS in chemical engineering practice at MIT in 2009. He was the recipient of the NSF Graduate Fellowship, and co-advised by Professor Langer and Dr. Omid Farokhzad of the Brigham Women’s Hospital – Harvard Medical School. See the original post at forbes.com. December 11, 2012 Alumnus Henry receives $3.6 M to develop high-efficiency solar reactor Researchers from the Georgia Institute of Technology have been awarded three grants totaling more than $9 million from the U.S. Department of Energy’s Advanced Research Projects Agency – Energy (ARPA-E) to develop energy technology solutions.  The three new awards are for projects involving solar fuel generation, power generation from vortices of solar heated air and energy storage.  Asegun Henry, assistant professor in the Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering as well as MIT Mechanical Engineering alumnus (MSME and PhD) and MSRP alum, will receive $3.6 million to develop a high-efficiency solar reactor to produce solar fuel.  Using liquid metal, the reactor transports heat away from the sunlight-collection point to a chemical reaction zone, minimizing the loss of solar heat.  This system could enable cost-effective solar fuels that would be used for transportation and continuous electric power generation. ?Read the entire report in the Georgia Tech Newsroom. November 15, 2012 Williams developing friendly car-bot ‘AIDA’ AIDA is an intelligent dashboard companion that not only reads the road, but should soon read your mood too. “People tend to have this inherent bond with their cars,” says Kenton Williams of the Personal Robots Group, who is lead researcher on the project. “If you can leverage that to create a stronger bond, then we think you can make the driving experience more enjoyable.” Continue reading about Williams’ research on Wired. May 10, 2012 Robinson wins Stewardship Science Graduate Fellowship In April, Mareena Robinson was one of five students awarded the prestigious Stewardship Science Graduate Fellowship (SSGF), which is sponsored by the Department of Energy’s National Nuclear Security Administration. Robinson is a first-year doctoral student in the Department of Nuclear Science and Engineering, with a focus on nuclear security. This fellowship program provides four year of benefits and opportunities to students pursuing a PhD in areas of interest to stewardship science. Continue reading this article on MIT News. April 19, 2012 Seibert awarded NSF Graduate Research Fellowship From cognitive neuroscience to theoretical physics, this year’s National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellows from the University of Houston (UH) have their sights set on careers in fields ranging from medicine to energy. Darren Seibert is a biomedical engineering major and also a member of the Honors College. He is working toward understanding the neural computations underlying visual perception. He has had the opportunity to collaborate on projects that use functional magnetic resonance imaging, or fMRI, with Michael Tarr’s lab at Carnegie Mellon University and electrophysiology in Dr. James DiCarlo’s lab at MIT. Continue reading about Seibert on the University of Houston News website. December 18, 2011 CEE PhD candidate Malek wins Marshall Sherfield Fellowship Samar Malek, a PhD candidate in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering (CEE) and former Program Assistant for the MIT Summer Research Program, has been named the 2012 Marshall Sherfield Fellow. Malek will conduct research on gridshell structures with the leading expert at the University of Bath in the United Kingdom. The Fellowships, which are funded by the Marshall Sherfield Fellowship Foundation and administered by the Marshall Commission, enable an American scientist or engineer to undertake post-doctoral research for a period of one to two academic years at a British university or research institute. Malek is completing her doctoral dissertation under the supervision of professor John Ochsendorf in the Department of Architecture and CEE. Read MIT News article here; photo by Justin Knight. Congratulations! October 17, 2011 Booker receives Arthur C. Cope Scholar Award Squire J. Booker, an associate professor of chemistry and an associate professor of biochemistry and molecular biology at Penn State University, has been honored with an Arthur C. Cope Scholar Award. Booker is an alumnus of the MIT MSRP program and obtained a doctoral degree in biochemistry at MIT in 1994. The award, which consists of a monetary prize and an unrestricted research grant, is given by the American Chemical Society “to recognize and encourage excellence in organic chemistry.” Continue reading about Booker’s accomplishment on the Penn State Science website. August 28, 2011 Sergio Cantu paper featured on Physics Today Sergio Cantu, a two-year participant of the MIT Summer Research Program, just published a paper entitled Teaching introductory undergraduate Physics using commercial video games.  “Commercial video games are increasingly using sophisticated physics simulations to create a more immersive experience for players. This also makes them a powerful tool for engaging students in learning physics. We provide some examples to show how commercial off-the-shelf games can be used to teach specific topics in introductory undergraduate physics. The examples are selected from a course taught predominantly through the medium of commercial video games.”  The paper was featured on Physics Today‘s Facebook page as well as on their homepage. July 31, 2011 NASA Goddard Summer Interns: Danielle Wood Danielle Wood is a doctoral candidate at MIT in the Engineering Systems Division and a NASA intern. At MIT she studies aerospace engineering, technology policy and international development. She now applies her research to all of these areas to study the technical and programmatic challenges of new satellite programs. Throughout her career, Danielle has had many diverse experiences with NASA as an intern, guest researcher, graduate fellow, contractor and Student Ambassador. She currently serves as an intern at Goddard in the Innovative Partnerships Program and at NASA Headquarters in the Office of the Chief Technologist. The mission of her current internship is to consider new ways that NASA technology spin-offs can be deployed for the benefit of developing countries. Read more April 21, 2011 Meyen develops space suit in Man Vehicle Laboratory As a child, Forrest Meyen‘s curiosity led him to mountaintops surrounding his Eagle River home. Now the 21-year-old student aspires to reach outer space. A senior majoring in biological and mechanical engineering at the University of Missouri-Columbia, Meyen received the rare opportunity to study space exploration when attending the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Summer Research Program last year. While developing an improved space suit, Meyen trained life-size robots and honed his own research skills in the process. Continue reading this article in The Alaska Star archives. March 2, 2011 Kinde recognized as 2011 Gilliam Fellow Benyam Kinde likes solving problems. He learned early in life that he could figure out most everything with ingenuity and hard work, thanks to the examples set by his parents, a math teacher and a large-animal veterinarian. The riddles that attract scientists and doctors began to intrigue Kinde in grade school, kindled by a school assignment to write about a parent’s job. As part of the assignment, he watched with fascination—instead of revulsion—as his father performed necropsies on large animals, including horses and cows. Continue reading about Kinde on the HHMI News website. February 15, 2011 Glenn receives Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Leadership Award Three MIT community members and one MIT organization have been named recipients of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Leadership Awards for 2011 in recognition of their service to the Institute and beyond. Candidates for the leadership awards are nominated by colleagues and chosen by the MLK Jr. Planning Committee, a subcommittee of MIT’s Committee on Race and Diversity. Weslee Glenn, a graduate student in the Department of Chemistry, was recognized for his role in the development of teacher training material on the topic of reducing stereotype threat. Continue reading about Glenn and other recipients on MIT News.   Search News: Search Filter By Administrative News Competitions Events Graduate Alumni News IAP2014 IAP2015 Professional Development Program Snapshot Student accomplishments Student life Student research Uncategorized Video News archive April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 February 2013 January 2013 December 2012 November 2012 October 2012 September 2012 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 May 2012 April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 November 2010 October 2010 June 2010 April 2010 October 2009 July 2009 August 2007 June 2007 April 2007 June 2006 May 2005 May 2000 Graduate Student Council International Students Office Office of the Dean for Graduate Education | Massachusetts Institute of Technology | 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Room 3-138, Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 T (617) 253-4860 | F (617) 253-5620 | Contact: odge@mit.edu
