Office of Technology Management, Urbana-Champaign
Office of Technology Management, Urbana-Champaign Search Search this site: OVPR The Office of the Vice President for Research facilitates collaborative research opportunities, streamlines related policies and procedures, and acts as a unified voice for U of I research. UIC OTM The Office of Technology Management at Chicago is responsible for managing the intellectual property generated by research and educational activities at the University. UIC Research Center Supplies a fully-equipped infrastructure and access to University resources, internship programs, world-class talent, and custom-designed business development services. UI Research Park Provides an ideal environment for starting a high-growth technology venture, with wet-chemistry labs, office space, an array of shared equipment, server co-location facilities, and conference rooms. IllinoisVENTURES IllinoisVENTURES is a seed and early-stage technology investment firm focused on research-derived companies in information technologies, physical sciences and life sciences, with a particular emphasis on those deriving from research conducted at the University of Illinois and other regional research institutions and federal laboratories. Office of Technology Management, Urbana-Champaign University of Illinois Software Patents after the "Alice" Decision Congratulations Dr. Kenneth Suslick, Innovation Transfer Award Winner Join Us at the TTS Global Initiative, July 20-21, 2015 Third Rock Ventures Announces $45 Million Launch of Revolution Medicines Join Our Team: Internship Opportunity at the Intersection of Business, Science & Law Illinois Proof-of-Concept Fund Update 1 of 16 ›› Events TTS North America 07/20/2015 - 8:30am About OTM For Industry Campus software The Illinois Proof of Concept Fund (I-POC): Apply for funding, deadline February 27, 2015   Fiscal 2014 Annual Report Find an update on our successes and activities in the last fiscal year here. OTM Team Meet the OTM team and find contact information here. Mission Statement The Office of Technology Management’s mission is to encourage innovation, enhance research, and facilitate economic development through the transfer of intellectual property. Read more. Publications Download our print publications including newsletters, reports, and information for faculty & students. Learn more. Inventor's Handbook An introduction to the University’s intellectual property policies, patenting and commercialization services, intellectual property fundamentals, and most importantly, to your role in the process of commercializing University innovations. Read more. Start-up Handbook An introduction to both the University’s resources and to basic business concepts and considerations. Read more. Contact Us OTM Start-ups Across the Country View OTM Startups Across the Country in a larger map Tweets by @ILinnovations Working With OTM The University's Office of Technology Management works with industry to streamline the process of transferring technology from the research lab to the public domain. These services enhance both Universities’ ability to fund future research and the public's opportunity to enjoy the benefits of the innovative work and forward-thinking technological achievements of the University research teams. Through our marketing efforts, the OTM works to increase industry awareness of University technologies that are available for licensing. University of Illinois Research Park The Research Park at the University of Illinois was created by the University of Illinois to advance its economic development mission. The University allocated 200 acres adjacent to central campus for development of the technology park. A private developer was selected as a partner to help advance the development. Learn more. EnterpriseWorks EnterpriseWorks (EW) is a 43,000 sq. ft. start-up technology business incubator and since opening in 2003, has become the launching pad for more than 70 start-up companies. Learn more. IllinoisVENTURES IllinoisVENTURES is a premier seed and early-stage technology investment firm focused on research-derived companies in information technologies, physical sciences, life sciences and clean technology. Learn more. Search Technologies Search: Campus ChicagoUrbana-Champaign Engineering Energy, Environmental Sciences and Materials-Energy-Active--Non Renewable Fuels---Coal--Renewable Fuels---Batteries and fuel cells---Processes: Fermentation and cellusolic-Energy-Passive--Solar--Wind-Environmental Testing and Remediation--Air--Soil--Water-Materials--Macro scale---Ceramics---Coatings---Composites---Inorganic---Organic--Micro/nano scale (non-electronic)Engineering-Civil, Mechanical and Industrial--Aerospace--Agricultural Equipment--Automotive--Highways and Roads--Manufacturing and Construction-Electronics--Macro scale---Packaging, processing---Power devices--Micro/nano scale---MEMS Devices---Non-MEMS Devices---Optoelectronics, Photonics and Lasers---Processes---Sensors-Optics--MicroscopyLife Sciences - Non-medicine-Agricultural Engineering--Crops and Germplasm-Food--Additives and supplements--Food processingOther-For the Greater Good-Research toolsSoftware-Applications--Business Software--Chemistry and Physics--Database--Educational/Research Tools--Games--Graphics/Visualization/Image--Molecular Modeling--Search--Security--Soil & water models--Telecom-Programming--Compile--Debug/Optimize/Secure--Interpret--Languages/Extensions-Systems--Machine/Manufacturing--Networking/Data Transmission--Personal Computer--Server Health Technologies Diagnostic biological tests/assays-Assays-Biosensors-Expression and purification-ImmunoassayDiagnostic hardware/software/medical devices-CT-Imaging-MR-SPECT/PET-U/S-X-RayDisease TypeDrug deliveryGenomics/proteomics-DNA probe-DNA/RNA sequencing-DNA/RNA synthesis-Gene expression, regulation and signal transduction-Marker-Molecular Biology-Nucleic acid manipulation-PCR-ProteinsHuman SystemsResearch Tools and Reagants-Antibodies-Cell Biology-Cell line-Cell signaling-Cellular Engineering-Chromatography-Disease Model-Drug Design-Drug targets-Electrophoresis-Enzymes-Macromolecular Structure and Function-Oligonucleotide synthesis-PCR-Spectroscopy-Sythesis and AnalysisStem cellsTherapeutic-Analgesic-Anesthetic-Angiogenesis-Angiogenesis-Anti-inflammatory-Antibiotic-Anticoagulant-Antifungal-Antiviral-Clotting-Gene and Cell Therapy-Immunotherapy-VaccinesTherapeutic hardware/ software/medical devices-Assistive device-Bioinformatics-Biomaterial-Invasive device-Noninvasive device Human Systems ALL OF THESECirculatoryDigestiveEndocrineIntegumentaryLymphaticMuscularNervousNONE OF THESEOcularReproductiveRespiratorySkeletalUrinary Disease Types ALL OF THESEAuditoryAutoimmuneCardiacDentalDermatologicEndocrineGastrointestinalGender-specific disordersGeneticHematologicInfectiousNeurologicNONE OF THESEOncologicOphthalmalogicalPainPerinatalPulmonaryRenalRheumatologic Start-Ups See a list of all active Start-Ups licensing University of Illinois intellectual property here.  Research Units The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign boasts world-class research centers and institutes that encourage cross-collaboration and play an important role in enhancing the University's ability to create cutting-edge technologies. Learn more. OTM Services The Office of Technology Management is responsible for managing the intellectual property generated by research and educational activities at the University. The Office seeks to guide technologies through every appropriate stage of the commercialization process by providing services that include the evaluation, protection, marketing, and licensing of intellectual property. Disclosing to the OTM The Invention Disclosure Form is the first step in a process that could potentially lead to commercialization of your technology. Learn more. Invention Disclosure Form (PDF) Software Disclosure Form (PDF) Mobile App Disclosure Form (PDF)  Knowing when to call the OTM vs. OSPRA Because the OTM and OSPRA work closely together, it is sometimes unclear which office to call when an intellectual property issue comes up. These lists give general guidelines for each office’s area of responsibility.  Inventor's Handbook An introduction to the University’s intellectual property policies, patenting and commercialization services, intellectual property fundamentals, and most importantly, to your role in the process of commercializing University innovations. Read more. Start-up Handbook  An introduction to both the University’s resources and to basic business concepts and considerations. Read more. Commercialization Process The Office of Technology Management has adopted a documented, systematic, and timely process for the analysis, protection, and commercialization of University intellectual property. Learn more. Licensing Process A license is the technology transfer agreement granting some of the University’s rights as owner of an intellectual property to a company who has agreed to certain obligations and responsibilities to commercialize the intellectual property. Learn more. Starting a Company A new company is one way to further develop and commercialize discoveries made at the University of Illinois. Learn more. EnterpriseWorks EnterpriseWorks (EW) is a 43,000 sq. ft. start-up technology business incubator, and since opening in 2003, it has acted as the launching pad for more than 70 start-up companies. Learn more. Understanding Intellectual Property Intellectual Property is a term that encompasses all forms of creativity that are protected either under statutes or by common law. It includes inventions, discoveries, know-how, show-how, processes, unique materials, copyrightable works, original data, and other creative or artistic works. Learn more. Thesis Withholding Policy and form for withholding graduate theses from publication to prevent premature disclosure of potentially patentable subject matter. Student Ownership General guidelines for determining when intellectual property is owned by a student and when it is owned by the University. Additional Resources & Forms Information on the Illinois Open Source License and the University's affiliation with Eli Lilly's Phenotypic Drug Discovery Initiative. Illinois Copyright Policy  Our campus must comply with laws and policies on copyright, as well as encourage awareness within its community of both responsibilities and appropriate actions for compliance. The University of Illinois is the foundation for many of the great technologies that are the standard of the internet today, including the Mosaic web browser and the Eudora mail system. Get to know how the Office of Technology Management can help transfer software innovations for widespread use. If you are a member of the campus community, our office can help with both commercial licensing and non-commercial transfer. If you are a member of the corporate or venture communities, we can help you find licensable software or a start-up company that will fit your needs. Software Licensing OTM assists inventors and authors in determining the appropriate strategy for distributing software and other copyrighted material owned by the University. Learn more Starting a Company Starting a company to commercialize your software is not a light undertaking.  There are a lot of unknowns.  Our goal at the OTM is to remove one of the many unknowns with a consistent and fair license for software startup companies. Learn more Mobile Application Development & Deployment The Office of Technology Management can  help you get access to  developer tools and is managing the submission of University-owned apps to the app stores across platforms Mobile Applications Available from the University of Illinois The University of Illinois offers Mobile Applications for both the iOS and Android mobile platforms.  Frequently Asked Questions Copyrighted works have their own ins and outs that distinguish their issues from patents.  Learn more Search Our Licensable Software   For more information Svetlana Sowers, Technology Manager 217-265-0778 svsowers@illinois.edu  print Search Technologies Search Startups OTM News OTM Events OTM Publications OTM Team Disclosure Forms Intellectual Property Commercialization Start a Company Office of Technology Management U of I at Urbana-Champaign   Phone: 217.333.7862 Fax: 217.265.5530 otm@illinois.edu Contact University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign ©2011. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois. All rights reserved.
