Purpose & Organization of Disability Resources
Purpose & Organization of Disability Resources Skip to Main Content. Services Navigation Directory Colleges & Schools Offices A-Z Maps Calendars UT Direct Mobile Search Site Map Quick Links UT Home BevoWare Blackboard Course Schedule Financial Aid Health Services Housing Parking Registrar Shuttle Transcripts Tuition Webmail (EID reqd) WebSpace What I Owe (EID reqd) Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty Parents & Visitors Prospective Students Staff About UT Academics Around Austin Arts & Entertainment Athletics Community Outreach Continuing & Distance Ed. Corporate Connections Employment Giving to UT Graduate Studies Information Technology International Study Libraries & Museums Research Calendars Colleges & Schools Directory Maps Mobile Offices A-Z Search Site Map UT Direct   UT Home Disability Resources Home  Purpose & Organization of Disability Resources   ADA Points of Contact  Ask an ADA Question or Send Comments  In Their Shoes  Purpose & Organization of the Disability Resources Web Pages Purpose of the Disability Resources Web Pages: help people with disabilities find the resources they need on campus. help people who have questions about the Americans with Disability Act Amendment Act (ADAAA). help faculty find resources for students with disabilities. help supervisors find resources for their employees with disabilities. help the UT community find resources for visitors with disabilities. Organization of the Disability Resources Web Page There are five sections to each of the Disability Resources Web Pages UT Navigation Bar - at the top of each page is the same UT Navigation Bar which includes links to widely used tools like the UT Directory and Campus Maps. There is a "skip to main content" link in the UT Navigation Bar that allows you to skip past all the navigation on the page and get straight to the main content of the page. Bread Crumb Trail - right below the UT Navigation Bar is a bread crumb trail that indicates what page you are on and how you got there. The links in the bread crumb trail allow you to back up to any previous level. Disability Resources Navigation - below the bread crumb trail, on the left side of the page are the navigation options for the Disability Resources web site. Main Content - to the right of the Disability Resources Navigation is the main content of the page. Footer - at the bottom of each page is the date the page was last updated and an e-mail link for asking questions and sending comments.   Updated 2009 May 19   Comments to ADAAA Coordinator
