Remembering Danielle | Danielle Guichard-Ashbrook
Remembering Danielle | Danielle Guichard-Ashbrook Skip to main content Danielle Guichard-Ashbrook 1954-2014 Associate Dean and Director of MIT's International Students Office Remembering Danielle MIT Students, MIT Alumni/ae, Friends, and Colleagues of the MIT International Students Office are invited to share memories and condolences with the Ashbrook family.  An MIT community-wide memorial service will be held on April 17, 2015 at 3 pm in Building E14 (Media Lab), 6th Floor. Please share your message in the comments section. Add new comment 27 Comments We will always remember you. Submitted by Lilla Magyar on Wed, 2014-11-12 20:59 We will always remember you. reply I remember when I was first Submitted by Beneah Kombe Wekesa on Wed, 2014-11-12 21:00 I remember when I was first coming to MIT, and due to a few issues I needed my MIT I-20 within 2 days. Danielle made it happen, Fedex-ing it to me so I could get it before flying out of the country. I developed a deep sense of admiration for the care and purpose with which she helped us international students as we navigated our way through the intense atmosphere that MIT is. We will miss you Danielle, find peace. reply I first spoke with Danielle a Submitted by Katie Mulroy on Wed, 2014-11-12 21:01 I first spoke with Danielle a few years ago when I began working at MIT and was considering graduate school and my career path in higher education. Danielle told me that she loved what she did and that the best part of her job was "the students, the students, the students." When I entered my graduate program at Harvard, I gave up my full time position at MIT and transitioned to Global Education, where I was lucky enough to briefly work with Danielle on the Global Theme Team. I was so happy to come full circle with her, especially since Danielle's advice helped push me to attend Harvard. I feel lucky to have known Danielle. My heartfelt condolences to her family.  reply Dear Danielle, Submitted by Jin-hong Choi on Wed, 2014-11-12 21:23 Dear Danielle,   My name is Jin-hong Choi, a graduate student of MIT from South Korea. I am so shocked when I heard that you passed away. As a foreign student with English as second language, I don't know how to start the letter or write in proper manner. I am so sorry, sad and feel grief from my heart. I am now in medical leave. When I dealt with visa status caused by the leave, I worked with Danielle. She helped me with kindness, sympathy and encouragement when I had such a hard time in both mental and physical side and had to stop my dream - researching in MIT - for a while. I still remember when I met Danille in person, communicated via emails several times... Please rest in piece.  Sincerely, Jin-hong Choi reply Danielle sincerely cared Submitted by AZ on Wed, 2014-11-12 21:30 Danielle sincerely cared about all the international students. We weren't just a number to her, and for her this wasn't just a job. She went well above and beyond to make our lives easier. Navigating the bureacracy can be intimidating and downright scary - a conversation with Danielle was the calming boost that could make all the difference. She touched many lives, and will sorely missed. reply We will always remember Submitted by Jiyoun on Wed, 2014-11-12 22:25 We will always remember Danielle and her efforts to help all international students at MIT. Please extend my sympathy to her family.  reply I am in shock to find out Submitted by Christina Chen on Wed, 2014-11-12 23:45 I am in shock to find out this news. I am very much saddened. Danielle is the first person that I reached out to on campus regarding financial difficulty and my family situation. Her warm works and hugs and introductions to resources on campus really melted my heart. I have yet got a chance to show my greatest gratitude to her... Rest in peace my dear Danielle.  reply Thanks for all your help, Submitted by Mirna Slim on Thu, 2014-11-13 00:12 Thanks for all your help, support, and smiles over the years. May God give your family and friends strength and peace. RIP reply I didn't get the change to Submitted by Anonymous on Thu, 2014-11-13 00:50 I didn't get the change to get to know Danielle all that well, but I remember very clearly her introduction for international graduate students at MIT. It was very clear that Danielle cared immensely for us. She was very welcoming and she supported us. She understood how we felt with our visa issues, that often make us feel we don't belong here, and she went beyond her duty to help us fix our problems. The international students, and MIT in general, are very thankful for your support and dedication. I'm very sorry you had to leave before your time, Danielle. We will miss you sorely. I hope your family can find some comfort in knowing how big of a difference you made in all our lives. Wherever you are, thank you.       reply This is a really sad news. I Submitted by Pasquale on Thu, 2014-11-13 09:02 This is a really sad news. I was always amezed by Danielle's passion and dedication to students. reply Pages 1 2 3 next › last » Add new comment Your name E-mail The content of this field is kept private and will not be shown publicly. Homepage Comment * More information about text formats Plain text No HTML tags allowed. Web page addresses and e-mail addresses turn into links automatically. Lines and paragraphs break automatically. CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. What code is in the image? * Enter the characters shown in the image. Home About Contact Login using Touchstone Search form Search
