Schob Nature Preserve - Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning
Schob Nature Preserve - Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning Texas A&M University College of Architecture College of Architecture College Website College Directory ITS Helpdesk My Email (Outlook Web Access) My Architecture Account College Intranet Departments Architecture Construction Science Landscape Architecture & Urban Planning Visualization Centers & Institutes CRS Center Center for Housing and Urban Development Hazard Reduction & Recovery Center Center for Health Systems & Design Center for Heritage Conservation Institute for Applied Creativity Institute for Sustainable Coastal Communities Outreach Colonias Program Texas Target Communities Texas Sustainable Coastal Initiative News ArchOne Newsletter College Calendar Facebook Twitter Texas A&M University Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning About us Academics Research & Teaching Service & Engagement People Prospective Students Gallery News & Events Administration Advisory Board Facilities Fact Sheets Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Certificates Courses Off Campus Studies Dual Degrees Schob Nature Preserve Faculty Research Student Works Journals Research Centers Community Outreach download application form Faculty Staff Former Students Student Organizations Administration Admissions Financing Education Scholarships & Fellowships Certificates Other Info Landscape Architecture Urban Planning Land & Property Development Study Abroad Service Learning Site Navigation About us News & Events Faculty News ArchONE Newsletters Fall Forum 2013 LAUP Lecture Series Design Week Schedule Team Rosters Open House Administration Advisory Board Facilities Fact Sheets Academics Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Change Major Graduate Admissions Admission Prerequisites Application Deadlines Required Application Materials Check List More Information Undergraduate BLA Faculty Admissions Curriculum Tuition and Fees BS-URPN Curriculum Courses Admissions Faculty Careers Student Resources Minor in Urban Planning Differential Tuition Graduate MLA Overview Admissions Curriculum Faculty Students Material Requirements Suggested Readings MUP Overview Program-Related Outcomes Curriculum Students MLPD Program Overview Why the MLPD at Texas A&M University? What do students learn? Curriculum Suggested Course Progression MLPD Core Courses MLPD Elective Courses Certificate Programs Dual Degree Options Texas A&M University Graduate Catalog Students Organizational Affiliations Current Student Profiles Former Students Admissions Admissions Process Admission Criteria Admission Deadlines Tuition & Fees Helpful Admissions Links Faculty contact URSC Faculty Admissions Curriculum Time to Degree Financial Support Resources External Review Certificates Environmental Hazard Management Facility Management Health Systems and Design Historic Preservation Sustainable Urbanism Transportation Planning Curriculum Degree Plan MUP Degree Plan MLA Degree Plan MARCH Degree Plan CVEN Degree Plan MPSA Degree Plan Student Projects Admissions Courses Off Campus Studies Dual Degrees Research & Teaching Schob Nature Preserve Design Construction Process Schob Scholars Program LAUP Mini-Grant Program 2014-15 Winning Proposals Faculty Research Student Works bla student work mla student work mlpd student work MUP Student Works Student Activities Student Projects Journals Research Centers Service & Engagement Community Outreach Texas Target Cities Program Distance education Outreach Academy download application form People Faculty Staff Former Students Student Organizations Administration Prospective Students Admissions Financing Education Scholarships & Fellowships Certificates Other Info Gallery Landscape Architecture BLA MLA Urban Planning MUP BSURPN Land & Property Development Study Abroad Service Learning About us News & Events Faculty News ArchONE Newsletters Fall Forum 2013 LAUP Lecture Series Design Week Open House Administration Advisory Board Facilities Fact Sheets Academics Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Undergraduate BLA BS-URPN Minor in Urban Planning Differential Tuition Graduate MLA MUP MLPD URSC Certificates Environmental Hazard Management Facility Management Health Systems and Design Historic Preservation Sustainable Urbanism Transportation Planning Courses Off Campus Studies Dual Degrees Research & Teaching Schob Nature Preserve Design Construction Process Schob Scholars Program LAUP Mini-Grant Program 2014-15 Winning Proposals Faculty Research Student Works bla student work mla student work mlpd student work MUP Student Works Student Activities Student Projects Journals Research Centers Service & Engagement Community Outreach Texas Target Cities Program Distance education Outreach Academy download application form People Faculty Staff Former Students Student Organizations Administration Prospective Students Admissions Financing Education Scholarships & Fellowships Certificates Other Info Gallery Landscape Architecture BLA MLA Urban Planning MUP BSURPN Land & Property Development Study Abroad Service Learning LAUP ? Research & Teaching ? Schob Nature Preserve Schob Nature Preserve <Tribute by Roger Sheridan, executor of the Schob estate> Dr. Schob was born in Chicago, Illinois in 1941. He received his Bachelor of Arts, Master of Arts and Ph.D. from the University of Illinois. Dr. Schob dedicated twenty-six years of his life teaching history at Texas A & M University. In addition to teaching here at A&M, he spent his summers (starting in 1971) teaching on the TEXAS CLIPPER TAMU in Galveston. David was the Director of the Summer School Sea Program during his last seven years of sailing on the Clipper. Some of his fondest teaching memories were made during the summers he spent aboard the Texas Clipper. David truly loved to teach history. His classes were always large. If you were a student in his class you felt as if you were “living the history.” A truly remarkable historian who made learning history something you wanted to do. Dr. Schob received numerous honors and awards as a result of his teaching. One such award that was extra special to David was “Best professor for teaching American history and professor to whom students best relate in terms of learning experience.”  Dr. Schob retired early from his love of teaching at Texas A&M in 1996 in order to devote his time to the care of his beloved mother. Dr. Schob died on February 12, 2007 from health complications relating to Alzheimer’s disease.   The Gift In his will of 2009, Dr. Schob bequeathed his home and residential lot of 7.44 acres at 906 Ashburn Avenue in College Station to Texas A&M University. The bequest stipulated that the property was to be used as a university student residence and neighborhood park. The residence was to be preferentially available to a disable U.S. service man or woman attending Texas A&M University. The land was to be made available as a public park for the local College Hills neighborhood. The disposition of the parkland portion of the property was placed under the joint jurisdiction of the departments of Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning in the College of Architecture and Recreation, Park and Tourism Sciences in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. The parkland, designated as the Dr. David E. Schob Nature Preserve has as its purpose, the creation, maintenance, preservation and management of the property as public parkland and nature conservation area. As a land grant institution, Texas A&M University is charged with teaching, research and outreach activities to serve the citizens of Texas. Texas A&M University, through its expertise in landscape architecture, urban planning, park design, recreational planning and management, plant and animal ecology, and stormwater management, among others, will guide the design, development, and future use and management of the site as a means of satisfying these institutional responsibilities.   The Process   2009.10 Dr. Michael Murphy led a proposal with Drs. Scott Shafer and Ming-Han Li for a cross disciplinary collaboration to assist in the development. 2011 spring Drs. Michael Murphy and Scott Shafer used the Schob site for LAND 321 and RPTS 402 class project. Several designs were proposed. 2011.02 Schob Park Oversight Board ( 5.1 MB)  was formed. 2011 fall Retired Dr. Michael Murphy was hired as the landscape architect to design the preserve. 2012.04 President Bowen Loftin approved ( 8.9 MB)  the concept design. 2012.06 Construction began. 2013 fall Schob Scholars Program began. Dr. Ming-Han Li was named the LAUP Senior Schob Scholar, effective ‘14. Dr. Scott Shafer was named the RPTS Senior Schob Scholar, effective fall ‘13. 2014.10.25 Opening ceremony was held. 2014 fall LAUP Schob Mini-grant Program announced the call for proposals. 2015.01 Four proposals were chosen for funding. "Donated nature preserve serves university as 'living' classroom" story featured in archone e-newsletter (November 4, 2014) Your address: © 2015 College of Architecture, Texas A&M University. Contact Information | Accessibility | Site Policies
