Service in Professional Organizations | Faculty and Staff | Washington State University
Service in Professional Organizations |  Faculty and Staff | Washington State University College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences Home Students Research Centers & Facilities Academic Departments Research and Extension Centers Subject Matter Centers Core Facilities Greenhouses Grant Resources Grant News Proposal Development Award Management Services REEport Instructions Internal Competitive Grants Intellectual Property Plant Variety Licensing Invention Disclosure Non-Disclosure Agreements/MTAs Conflict of Interest Extension Industry Wheat & Small Grains Wine (Viticulture & Enology) Potatoes Tree Fruit Decision Aid System (DAS) AgWeatherNet Home & Garden Gardening Resources Publications Store Master Gardener Program Impacts of Extension Program Impact Reports Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Business Support Start Here! Business Centers Extension Support Support Units Logins and Forms Employees Faculty Staff Temporary Hourly Dept/ Prog Admins I Need To: Prepare a Grant Make a Hire Travel Report Research Project Publish with Extension Service in Professional Organizations Service in Professional Organizations SearchRequest InfoGive #CougsGive125 Help WSU meet its goal of raising $125,000. The challenge begins noon March 26 and continues to midnight March 27. http://cougsgive.wsu.edu » #CougsGive125 Donate to any CAHNRS program as part of WSU’s first official giving day that celebrates the university's 125th anniversary year. http://cougsgive.wsu.edu » #CougsGive125 Participate in WSU’s first official giving day. We’re trying to get 1,250 donors and raise $125,000 in 36 hours. http://cougsgive.wsu.edu » #CougsGive125 Make a bold statement in celebration of Washington State University's 125th anniversary. http://cougsgive.wsu.edu » CAHNRS is more than agriculture. With 24 majors, 19 minors, and 27 graduate level programs, we are one of the largest, most diverse colleges at WSU. CAHNRS Cougs are making a difference in the wellbeing of individuals, families, and communities, improving ecological and economic systems, and advancing agricultural sciences. Latest News Warmest winter since 1992 ends with warmest February March 27, 2015 PROSSER, Wash. – The last time Prosser experienced a month as warm as February 2015, relative to normal, some people were still using typewriters and cordless telephones. According to Washington State University’s AgWeatherNet, the February monthly anomaly ... Reganold to receive Eminent Faculty Award; register today March 26, 2015 PULLMAN, Wash. – John P. Reganold will receive the 2015 Eminent Faculty Award from Washington State University during the Celebrating Excellence Recognition Banquet at 5:30 p.m. Friday, March 27, part of WSU’s annual Showcase celebration ... WSU Extension’s National Energy Summit is April 7-10 in Seattle March 24, 2015 Everett, Wash. — Join Extension professionals and renewable energy advocates at the National Extension Energy Summit, April 7 to 10 in Seattle. Learn about sustainable and renewable energy, home and farm energy efficiency and biomass ... Organic grain and hay growers, sellers link on Extension online bulletin board March 19, 2015 It is a good time to be an organic farmer, if Washington State University’s new Organic Grain Sales Bulletin Board is anything to go by. SearchRequest InfoGive FACTS Discovery CAHNRS leads in discovery through its high-quality research programs. In 2014, CAHNRS received research funding exceeding $81.5M. This accounts for nearly 40% of all research funding received by WSU.   The Rock Doc Dr. Kirsten Peters The Rock Doc is a nationally syndicated newspaper column written by Dr. Kirsten Peters, covering many scientific and research related topics in a upbeat and entertaining fashion. Dr. Peter’s humor and anecdotes help to bring these stories to a public audience by showing how they affect everyday life. The most recent articles are linked below. Rock Doc Articles Earth’s Next Epoch To feed or not to feed? Fat and the year you were born Students Request Info on a MajorVisit a WSU CampusApply to WSU Undergraduate Studies Check out every department and program CAHNRS has to offer, from Interior Design to Agriculture to Wildlife Ecology. We have 13 departments and schools to prepare you for your chosen career. Graduate Studies Students have a variety of options to pursue masters and doctoral degrees. Many of these have very specific background requirements, so we suggest exploring the individual programs for academic guidelines. Center for Transformational Learning & Leadership The CTLL is a student, faculty, alumni and industry partner collaboration for high quality learning and leadership beyond the classroom. Request Info on a MajorVisit a WSU CampusApply to WSU This is CAHNRS May 10, 2012 Being a CAHNRS Coug is about having a life-changing experience and having fun along the way. With an endless array of subjects to study, students can explore a variety of topics until they focus on that area that truly excites them. We include ample opportunities to learn outside the classroom, because we not only believe it’s a better way to learn, it makes for a more meaningful and enjoyable college experience. What is the CTLL? May 10, 2012 The Center for Transformational Learning and Leadership makes it possible for students to secure that job-landing internship, experience another culture in the southern hemisphere, unlock their leadership potential through seminars and workshops, and find a mentor to coach them through their academic experience. Welcome Back May 10, 2012 CAHNRS knows how to throw a party, and there is not greater time to celebrate than when our students return to campus. Free food (including Ferdinand’s Ice Cream), swag from each of our student clubs, activities, and a drawing for $1,000 scholarships—its all part of our annual Fall Festival. And we just don’t limit the event to our CAHNRS majors, we welcome everyone across campus to learn more about what our college offers. CAHNRS Office of Research Agricultural Research Center People SearchLocationsRequest for Proposals Can mushrooms save the honey bee? Early last year, Stamets asked Washington State University entomologist Steve Sheppard to help confirm his hunches about bees and fungi. Conservation buffers please the eye, protect the landscape Doctoral graduate Linda Klein has found that more buffers are better, both for pleasing the eye and slowing erosion. Conserving soil and water in dryland wheat region In the world’s driest rainfed wheat region, summer fallow management practices can make all the difference for farmers, water and soil conservation, and air quality. Study reveals promising technology to expand hard cider industry Mechanical harvesting of cider apples can provide labor and cost savings without affecting fruit, juice, or cider quality. Food labels, the environment, and livestock With global food demand quickly outpacing water availability consumers can make a big difference in reducing the water used in livestock production. An apple a day could keep obesity away A WSU study finds that Granny Smith apples—may help prevent disorders associated with obesity. Mission Statement The goal of the Washington State University CAHNRS Office of Research is to promote research beneficial to the citizens of Washington. The Office of Research recognizes its unique land-grant research mission to the people of Washington and their increasing global connections. The CAHNRS Office of Research provides leadership in discovering and applying knowledge through high-quality research that contributes to a safe and abundant food, fiber, and energy supply while enhancing the sustainability of agricultural and natural resource systems. Featured Research Buyer’s remorse: Model shows people demand all that bad news March 18,  2015 By Rebecca Phillips Bad news in the media got you down? News consumers have only themselves to blame, says new research showing that it’s actually buying habits that drive negative press. The research looks at the negative news phenomenon through the prism of economic science. And while previous studies have focused on the supply side by examining media output, this analysis is among the first to investigate a negative news bias from the consumer or demand side. MORE Grazing among grains yields ecological, economic benefits Feb 23,  2015 By Sylvia Kantor Pullman, Wash. – You generally don’t find livestock among the hills of the Palouse region of eastern Washington where grain is grown. But wheat farmers Eric and Sheryl Zakarison are changing that – and making a profit. On 100 of their 1,300 family owned acres, they are experimenting with a rather unconventional scheme for the region – growing wheat, peas, perennial grasses like alfalfa and sheep in a tightly integrated system. MORE   Grafting research could rescue state’s watermelon crop Feb 23,  2015 By Scott Weybright The watermelon crop has declined dramatically in Washington because of disease. But Washington State University researchers are developing a solution that involves grafting watermelon plants onto squash and other vine plant rootstocks. “We’ve lost about a third of our state’s watermelon production over the last 10 years because of Verticillium wilt,” said Carol Miles, a professor of vegetable horticulture at the WSU Northwestern Washington Research and Extension Center in Mount Vernon. “Growers have switched to other crops that are less susceptible.” MORE Sickness and health between men and women Feb 19,  2015 By Sylvia Kantor Gender and personality matter in how people cope with physical and mental illness, according to a paper by a Washington State University scientist and colleagues at the University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce. Men are less affected by a single-symptom illness than women, but are more affected when more than one symptom is present. The number of symptoms doesn’t change how women are affected, according to Robert Rosenman, WSU professor in the Department of Economic Sciences. MORE Conservation buffers please the eye, protect the landscape, says WSU researcher Feb 4,  2015 By Seth Truscott PULLMAN, Wash. – Researchers know that adding natural buffers to the farm landscape can stop soil from vanishing. Now a scientist at Washington State University has found that more buffers are better, both for pleasing the eye and slowing erosion. Linda Klein, a recent doctoral graduate in WSU’s School of the Environment, worked with six other researchers at the university, plus one at the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Moscow (Idaho) Forestry Sciences Laboratory, to explore the role that buffers – strips or clumps of shrubs, trees and natural vegetation – play in the landscape and in people’s visual preferences. Klein surveyed Whitman County residents to see if conservation features made for more scenic fields and valleys. She found that Palouse residents prefer more nature with their wheat fields.MORE People SearchLocationsRequest for Proposals Tools AgWeather Net CAHNRS Sponsored Project Proposal Processing REEport Manual WORQS Forms eREX Invention Disclosure Incident Report Lab Safety Manual Conflict of Interest Upcoming Events May 20 Wed 9:00 am Columbia Co. Conservation Tour Columbia Co. Conservation Tour May 20 @ 9:00 am Jun 2 Tue 8:00 am Horse Heaven Tour Horse Heaven Tour Jun 2 @ 8:00 am Jun 3 Wed 1:00 pm Ritzville Field Day Ritzville Field Day Jun 3 @ 1:00 pm Jun 4 Thu 8:00 am Western Whitman Co. -Lacrosse Tour Western Whitman Co. -Lacrosse Tour Jun 4 @ 8:00 am 5:00 pm Connell Field Day Connell Field Day Jun 4 @ 5:00 pm Jun 9 Tue 7:30 am Pendleton Field Day Pendleton Field Day Jun 9 @ 7:30 am Jun 10 Wed 7:30 am Moro Field Day Moro Field Day Jun 10 @ 7:30 am 4:00 pm Harrington Tour Harrington Tour Jun 10 @ 4:00 pm Jun 11 Thu 8:30 am Lind Field Day Lind Field Day Jun 11 @ 8:30 am Jun 12 Fri 5:00 pm St. Andrew Tour St. Andrew Tour Jun 12 @ 5:00 pm View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar CAHNRS Office of Research Hulbert Hall 403 PO Box 646240 Pullman, WA 99164-6240 PH: 509-335-4563 FAX: 509-335-6751 agresearch@wsu.edu Extension Volunteer LoginDirectoryLocations WSU Extension sponsors National Energy Summit, April 7-10 Join renewable energy advocates at the National Extension Energy Summit, April 7 to 10 in Seattle. Organic grain and hay growers, sellers link on Extension online bulletin board It's a good time to be an organic farmer, suggests WSU's new organic grain and hay bulletin board. Warm, weird weather puts crops ahead of schedule The calendar still says winter, but grain and fruit crops in Washington may already think it’s spring Colville Reservation Extension receives national recognition Washington State University’s Colville Reservation Extension Team was awarded the USDA National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) Partnership Award for Effective and Efficient Use of Resources. Tasting a thousand apples - just a Typical Day WSU diversity chief enters 4-H Hall of Fame PULLMAN, Wash.—Michael Tate retired from Washington State University on September 30 and one of his first planned trips will be his induction ceremony into the National 4-H Hall of Fame. Tate, WSU’s Chief Diversity Officer ... Dogs are the Best Medicine $5 Million Gift Ups Washington’s Grain Game By Rachel Webber PULLMAN, Wash. – The Washington Grain Commission announced Wednesday a $5 million gift to expand facilities and advance grain research at Washington State University. Plant growth facilities are central to developing grain ... With 39 locations throughout the state, WSU Extension is the front door to the University. Extension builds the capacity of individual, organization, businesses and communities, empowering them to find solutions for local issues and to improve their quality of life. Extension collaborates with communities to create a culture of life-long learning and is recognized for its accessible, learner-centered, relevant, high-quality, unbiased educational programs. Impact: Burrowing Shrimp and Invasive Eelgrass Shellfish production in Washington is a $60 million a year industry. Several major pests plague this industry, resulting in major crop loss. One of the most important pests is subterranean burrowing shrimp. These shrimp bioturbate (stir up) the sediment, causing the oysters to sink and die. For the past 60 years the industry has been using the insecticide Sevin to control this pest, but due to lawsuits its use was phased out in 2012. Without alternative control for shrimp, tens of millions of dollars in annual crop revenue will be lost and the industry will quickly lose its economic viability in southwestern Washington. Impact: The National Livestock and Poultry Environmental Learning Center The Environmental Protection Agency has identified agriculture as the leading contributor of pollutants to the nation’s rivers, streams, lakes, and reservoirs. These reports often do not separate animal agriculture from other agricultural enterprises, but they do note that pathogens, nutrients, and oxygen-depleting substances associated with manure are three of the top five pollutants. Some emerging issues related to manure management include: endocrine disruptors (hormones), pharmaceuticals (antimicrobials), and antibiotic resistance in bacteria. Adopting farm practices that minimize the environmental impact is important for food safety. Impact: Biosolids and Compost Biosolids are the solids produced during municipal wastewater treatment. Composts are made from a variety of organic materials, including both urban and agriculture sources such as yard trimmings, biosolids, storm debris, food waste or manure, and food processing residues. While these materials have traditionally been viewed as waste, they can play a valuable role as soil amendments in urban and agricultural settings. They provide nutrients and organic matter and they sequester carbon, thereby conserving resources, restoring soils, and combating climate change. Volunteer LoginDirectoryLocations Click to see the many ways that WSU Extension benefits your community and the state. Calendar Feb 3 Tue all-day 2015 Master Gardener Training Tu... 2015 Master Gardener Training Tu... Feb 3 – Mar 31 all-day Mar 27 Fri 9:00 am 2015 Master Gardener Training @ Norm Dicks Government Center 2015 Master Gardener Training @ Norm Dicks Government Center Mar 27 @ 9:00 am – 4:00 pm Find more information here on how you can become a Master Gardener. 5:00 pm 4-H Public Presentations 4-H Public Presentations Mar 27 @ 5:00 pm – 8:00 pm Dena Edgecombe 425-478-2102 Mar 28 Sat all-day Small Animal Show Small Animal Show Mar 28 all-day 8:00 am Plant-Insect Diagnostic Clinic Plant-Insect Diagnostic Clinic Mar 28 @ 8:00 am – 8:30 am Master Gardener volunteers are available to assist home gardeners with plant questions, problems, and insect ID. 9:00 am Organic Vegetable Gardening Cour... @ Norm Dicks Government Center Organic Vegetable Gardening Cour... @ Norm Dicks Government Center Mar 28 @ 9:00 am – 3:00 pm A class taught to you by Master Gardeners to help you create your own organic backyard vegetable garden. This course is open to any community member who wishes to learn about growing food crops organically.[...] 1:00 pm Primary Crafts Workshop @ WSU Clark County Extension Primary Crafts Workshop @ WSU Clark County Extension Mar 28 @ 1:00 pm – 2:30 pm   Mar 29 Sun 1:00 pm 4-H Dog Judging 4-H Dog Judging Mar 29 @ 1:00 pm – 3:00 pm Lisa Worl 425-337-5266 Mar 31 Tue 8:00 am Plant-Insect Diagnostic Clinic –... Plant-Insect Diagnostic Clinic –... Mar 31 @ 8:00 am – 8:30 am 9:00am – 12:00pm Master Gardener volunteers are available to assist home gardeners with plant question, problems, and insect ID. 12:00 pm Republic Chamber Sub-Committee M... @ TEDD Office - Ferry County Republic Chamber Sub-Committee M... @ TEDD Office - Ferry County Mar 31 @ 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm The next Business Development/Tourism Committee meeting will be held on October 14th,  12:00pm, in the Business Resource Center, 147 N. Clark, Suite 6. (Across from the Post office)   Joy Osterberg Ferry County Business Specialist Tri[...] View Calendar Add Add to Timely Calendar Add to Google Add to Outlook Add to Apple Calendar Add to other calendar Alumni & Friends GiveConnectEvents Food Science mentor’s work lives on in scholarship WSU Creamery advisor Dr. Lloyd Luedecke's memory lives on through memorial scholarship, bench at Ferdinand's The Center of Washington Wine The WSU Wine Science Center is poised to blend research and teaching expertise with the state’s rapidly growing wine industry. Threads of Change The WSU Department of Apparel, Merchandising, Design, and Textiles is embracing the idea of change at a new location on the Pullman campus. Transform, Learn, Lead The Center for Transformational Learning and Leadership could not have launched without the support of generous alumni and corporate partner, CoBank. A Friend to Honey Bees Already a veteran fundraiser, 16-year-old Sheridan Miller recently donated $1,400 to support WSU’s honey bee research program. The WSU College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences (CAHNRS) Office of Alumni & Friends is a service unit dedicated to promoting philanthropic support for the college’s research, teaching, and extension programs. CAHNRS seeks $190 million through the Campaign for WSU. This unprecedented fundraising goal is managed through the CAHNRS Office of Alumni and Friends. If you would like to learn more about the CAHNRS’s fundraising priorities, please explore our website or meet the team. Funding Priorities Through the Campaign for Washington State University, CAHNRS and WSU Extension will play a major role in defining answers to complex issues through truly big ideas—feeding the world, powering the planet, and ensuring the health and well-being of children, families, and communities. See below to learn more about how we are addressing these issues in our strategic and on-going  initiatives and development of world-class students. Wine Organics Pulse Crops Learning & Leadership (CTLL) Tree Fruit Grain AMDT GiveConnectEvents Campaign Progress $250 Million $0 Million CAHNRS Alumni & Friends PO Box 646228 Pullman, WA 99164-6228 PH: 509-335-2243 alumni.friends@wsu.edu   Faculty & Staff E-Form LoginLeave ReportingWORQS Important Dates and Deadlines March 26, 2015 CAHNRS Honors – SEL Event Center March 26-27, 2015 Spring NBOA – Ensminger April 6, 2015 Signed Faculty and AP Annual Reviews September 10, 2015 Fall Festival   CAHNRS Support Units Alumni & Friends Office Business Center, Food Science Clark Hall Business Center, Johnson Hall Budget & Finance Unit CAHNRS HR Unit Research & Grants Unit WSU Web Based Email (connect.wsu.edu) Communications Computing and Web Resources Publications Video and Multimedia Services Video Conferencing A-Z Index of Faculty and Staff Resources: Click letters to sort alphabetically Click individual items to view or download E-Form LoginLeave ReportingWORQS Contact Dean’s Office: Hulbert 421 PO Box 646242 Pullman WA 99164-6242 deans.cahnrs@wsu.edu 509-335-4561 Lisa Johnson: Assistant to the Dean Hulbert 421C PO Box 646242 Pullman WA 99164-6242 janowski@wsu.edu 509-335-3590 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz AP Annual Review Form Fillable Academic Affairs Program Prioritization Report Accreditation Report Adjunct Appointments Administrative Professional Annual Review Form Administrative Professional Hiring Procedures Advisory Council Roster Alcohol and Drug Policy Allowable Expenditures Allowable Expenditures by Program Allowable Expenditures on Sponsored Projects Alternative Appointments Annual Review for Administrative Professionals Appendix-E Approval to Make Pesticide Recommendations (BPPM 45-67) ASCENT Proposal Process Assurance Form Author Submission Guidelines Benchmarks Benefit Worksheet Best Management Practices for Conducting Annual Reviews BPPM Table of Contents Budget Statement CAHNRS Admin Academic and Centers Org Chart CAHNRS and Extension Payroll Schedule for August 2014-May 15, 2015 CAHNRS Annual Review Instructions 2014 CAHNRS DSS CAHNRS Volunteer Workplace Injury Reporting Instructions Canons of Practice (.docx) Canons of Practice (.pdf) Cash Deposit Recovery Report Sample Cash Handling Cash Handling Procedures Cash Overage Report Sample Cash Receipt Questionnaire Cash Shortage Report Sample Centers and Departmental Synergy Chairs and Directors Development Responsibilties Support Chairs and Directors Development Responsibilties Support Checklist-For-REEport-Projects Combined Research and Extension Plan of Work Commitment to Civil Rights and Affirmative Action Committee Representatives Compliance and Audit Computing and Telecommunications (BPPM 85-00) Conflict of Interest Application 2014 Contact, Johnson Hall Business Center Contacts, Food Science Clark Hall Business Center County 4 H Program County Director Expectations County Directors Expectations Checklist Course Evaluations Memo CTLL Internship Handbook Current Pending Support Form Dean’s Third-Year Review Memo Degree Audit Summary Department Based Extension Matrix Department Checklist for REEport Projects Developing a County Budget Proposal Development Activities in Extension Direct Deposit Form Disclaimer for Reused WSU Extension Web Material Essentials of a Project Proposal (Appendix F) ESST Training ESST Training Evaluation Form Executive Policy Mentoring Experimental Use of Pesticides (BPPM 45-70) Extension County Director Role and Appointment Extension Third-year Review Guidelines FA Policy 12-27-2013 Facilities & Administrative Policies Faculty Annual Review Form Faculty Annual Review Form Federal Enabling Legislation Finance (BPPM 30-00) Food and Agriculture Stakeholder List Food Preservation Programming Policies WSU Extension Food Science Clark Hall Business Center Guide Formalization of Mentoring Committee Requirement Format for Reporting Projected Participation (Appendix E) Forms Index (BPPM 04-01) Framework for Academic Appointment Workload Expectations Generic Progress Report Format Generic Proposal Format Guidelines for Assessing Teaching Performance for Annual Review Guidelines for Preparing and Criteria Evaluation of Professional Leave Proposals Holidays (BPPM 60-76-2) Intellectual Property (BPPM 35-00) Interdepartmental Requisition and Invoice (IRI) Internal Audits (BPPM 30-12) Internship Requirements at a Glance (Attachment C) Introduction (BPPM 00-01) Introduction (BPPM 00-02) Johnson Hall Business Center Guide List of Internship Courses (Attachment A) Manual on Faculty Evaluation McIntire-Stennis Project Timeline Multi-State Travel Training Handout National Science Foundation: Computer and Network Systems National Science Foundation: Partnerships for Innovation National Science Foundation: Smart and Connected Health NIFA Plan of Work (2014) Norm Ehmann Urban Pest Management Award Not Selected Reasons FAC Not Selected/ Not Hired Reasons for CS/AP OGRD Budget Template OGRD Cost Determination Guidelines for Sponsored Agreements OGRD Material Transfer Agreement OGRD Proposal Budget Assistance OR-Org-Chart-2014 Organization (BPPM 10-00) Payroll (BPPM 55-00) PCard Log Sheet, Johnson Hall Business Center Personnel (BPPM 60-00) Personnel Request Form, Food Science Clark Hall BC Personnel Request Form, Johnson Hall Business Center Pesticide Policy Overview (BPPM 45-65) Plan of Work 2014 Policies and Procedures for Promotion and Tenure of WSU Extension Faculty in Program Units Policies Procedures and Criteria for Promotion and Tenure Policy for Multi-State Travel Fund Position Control (BPPM 58-00) Preparing Promotion and Tenure Documents for County and Area Faculty Principles for use of Professinal Behaviors Matricies Procedure for Transfer between Extension Program Units Prof Exp Dept-Based Ext Faculty Prof Exp Dept-Based Ext Faculty FINAL May 2010 Professional and Retraining Application Professional and Retraining Leave Professional Behaviors Matrix for County Faculty and Administrative Professionals Professional Expectations Matrix for County Directors Professional Expectations Matrix for Ext Program Unit Faculty PROFESSIONAL LEAVE Form Professional Leave Guidelines Form Professional-and-Retraining-application-forms-Final Promotion and Tenure Consideration of Faculty Promotion Recommendation Promotion Tenure Guidelines Promotion Tenure Guidelines Property (BPPM 20-00) Provost Instructions Annual Review 2014 Provost Memo for Review Towards Tenure Provost Professional Leave Memo 2015-16 Provost Progress Toward Tenure Review Provost Third-Year Review Memo Provosts Guidelines Purchasing (BPPM 70-00) Purchasing Card Transaction Sheet (Fillable) – FSCLARK Receipt Authorization (BPPM 30-52-9) Receipt Request (BPPM 30-52-10) Records (BPPM 90-00) Records Retention Schedule REEport Manual REEportManual Reporting Partial Hours Research (BPPM 45-00) Research Matrix Resignation and Retirement Restrictions on Use of Public Funds and Facilities for Campaign Activities Revenue Generation Handbook Roles and Responsibilities of Center Directors Roles and Responsibilities of Chairs and Directors Roles and Responsibilities of County Directors Safety and Security (BPPM 50-00) Safety Orientation Form Safety Plan for County and District Personnel and Facilities Sample Timeline for Submitting an ARC Project Scholarship Research Assessment Matrix Service Centers Service in Professional Organizations Services (BPPM 80-00) Single Audit Smith Teaching and Learning Endowment RFP Sponsored Agreements (BPPM 40-00) State Administrative and Accounting Manual State Enabling Legislation Strategic Plan Strategic Plan Progress Report Summary of Activities in Response to Strategic Plan Summary of Ethics Law and Policies (BPPM 10-21) Support Program for Unit Leaders Teaching Assessment Rubric Teaching Matrix Temp Hourly Hiring Instruction Packet Temporary Employment Change Request Temporary Employment Request Form Tenure and Procedure Recommendation Tenure and Promotion Ballot Tenure and Promotion Criteria For Extension Program Unit Faculty Tenure and Promotion Policies and Proc. for Extension Faculty in Prog Units Tenure and Promotion Policies, Procedures, and Criteria Tenure Recommendation Third-year Tenure Review Timekeeper Instructions Training Report Form Transfers of Work Location Travel (BPPM 95-00) Use of Registered Pesticides (BPPM 45-69) VITA Template 2014 Vogel: Research Call for Proposals W-4 Form Washington Per Diem Rates Weed Control Boards WhatisWORQS Workshop Account Request Workshop Request Form WORKSHOP-ACCOUNTS WORQSManual WSU-Extension-Safety-Plan ZZUSIS – MyWSU Cross Reference Portal Help Washington State University Search Contact Share Print Faculty & Staff Home Students Research Extension Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Home From the Dean Important Documents Board & Committees Forms & Systems Strategic Planning Business Services Start Here! Dept/ Prog Admins Business Centers Extension / County Support Support Units CAHNRS HR Unit Budget & Finance Unit Grants Unit Policies & Procedures Contacts Policies University Canons Academic Programs Research & Grants For Employees Faculty Staff Temporary Hourly Safety Home About Executive Leadership CAHNRS Administration Locations Departments News & Events Latest News Calendar Newsletters Feature Archive Rock Doc Students Home Meet the Staff Degrees Agricultural and Food Systems Animal Sciences Apparel, Merchandising, Design and Textiles Earth and Environmental Sciences Economic Sciences Food Science Horticulture Human Development Integrated Plant Sciences Interior Design Landscape Architecture Graduate Studies Academic Advising Advisor List Transfer Students Articulation Agreements Scholarships Internships Awards Careers & Clubs Ambassadors Clubs & Student Organizations Jobs & Grants Lab Info Hulbert Computer Labs Vogel Hall Labs Research Home About People Maps Committees Centers & Facilities Departments R&E Subject Matter Core Facilities Greenhouses Farms Grant Resources Overview Proposals Awards REEport Multi-State Internal Grants Intellectual Property Safety Research Conversations Extension Home Agriculture Communities Economic Development Energy Gardening Health & Wellness Natural Resources Youth & Families Publications Store Alumni & Friends Home About Alumni & Friends Staff CAHNRS & WSU Extension Leadership CAHNRS & WSU Extension National Campaign Council Strategic Initiatives On-Going Intiatives Giving Gifts In Action Scholarship Donor Profiles Keep In Touch ReConnect Submissions ReConnect Magazine Classmate Updates Alumni Profiles Connections Magazine Archive Faculty & Staff Home From the Dean Important Documents Board & Committees Forms & Systems Strategic Planning Business Services Start Here! Dept/ Prog Admins Business Centers Extension / County Support Support Units CAHNRS HR Unit Budget & Finance Unit Grants Unit Policies & Procedures Contacts Policies University Canons Academic Programs Research & Grants For Employees Faculty Staff Temporary Hourly Safety CAHNRS News Center for Transformational Learning & Leadership Center for Transformational Learning & Leadership Center for Transformational Learning & Leadership CAHNRS News facebook twitter youtube Zzusis Access Policies © Correct! Incorrect
