Stanford Historical Society
Stanford Historical Society Skip to main content. If you care about Stanford University, join the Stanford Historical Society! Search the Stanford Historical Society   Upcoming Programs Stanford Historical Society Historic Houses Walking Tour Hidden Gems of Upper Lomita Explore one of Stanford’s historic neighborhoods with the Stanford Historical Society. Docents will discuss architecture, landscape and history of a dozen buildings and gardens including the Knoll, Kingscote Gardens and the Bechtel International Center. Access to interiors will be limited. This active family-friendly walk features a special treasure hunt for kids aged 6 to 12. Advance tickets: $10 checks must be received by April 11 so tickets can be mailed. Standard tickets may be picked up at tour registration desk near Bechtel International Center (584 Capistrano Way). Signs to registration desk will be posted on the tour day. Download the flyer/registration form (pdf), map/directions/parking, and description.     Sandstone & Tile, Fall 2014 Volume 38, Number 3 The Stanford Band: A 50-Year History Norm Robinson: Almost every conversation about the Stanford Band begins with three questions—“Why do they do what they do?” “Why can’t they just march like a normal band?” And “Why doesn’t the university do something?” I always give the same three-word answer: “It’s the band.” But the true reason goes back to some pivotal events in 1962 and 1963. (read more)   Moral Citizens: Coeducational Transformation at Stanford, 1965–1969 by Meredith Wheeler On September 22, 1965, when Stanford freshmen moved into the all-female Roble Hall, university administrators presented them with two documents. The first outlined the preregistration activities—qualifying examinations, meetings with faculty advisors, and house meetings—they would soon take part in. The second detailed the social regulations they were bound by as newly enrolled Stanford undergraduates. In just under a dozen pages, “Social Regulations and Procedures” exhaustively documented sign-out rules, chaperone policies, and enforcement of rules in campus dormitories. Roble freshmen were permitted 25 late leaves during their first quarter. Otherwise, they were required to return to their dormitory by 10:30 each evening, at which point Roble was closed to men. For each late-leave request, female undergraduates had to fill out a card stipulating where they were going, with whom, and what time they would return. Just four years later, Roble Hall was the site of some of the first coeducational hallways in the country. (read more) Also In This Issue: A Longer View of Women's Enrollment at Stanford: 1891-2013 Stanford through the Century SHS News SHS Membership Roster SHS 2013-2014 Financial Summary SHS Acknowledgements Upcoming Society Activities Read More... Recent Programs Now Available Online Stanford and VIA (Volunteers in Asia): 50 years of International Service (mp3 audio) Membership Spotlight Stanford Historical Society Membership To join or renew your membership, use Stanford University's Make a gift now link. You can also use this link to give a gift membership or to make an additional contribution to SHS. Click on the "Continue" button on the linked page. Enter the amount of your membership in the amount box on the next page, and under "Special Instructions/Other Designation" indicate the membership level you are choosing. If it is a gift membership, please indicate as such and provide the recipient's name and address in the "Special Instructions/Other Designation" field. Follow remaining directions on the site to complete your credit card transaction. Publications Update Stanford Street Names: A Pocket Guide. Revised and Updated Why does Stanford have streets named Electioneer, Lasuen, Charles Marx, Olmsted, and Santa Teresa? A revised and updated pocket guide to Stanford streets tells all If you have ever wondered about these or other street names on the Stanford campus, you have a kindred spirit in Stanford professor Richard W. Cottle. Read More... The book is available for $9.95 (plus $0.87 sales tax for CA residents and $4.00 shipping and handling fee per book) from the Stanford Historical Society, P.O. Box 20028, Stanford, CA 94309 or at the Stanford Bookstore.  - to top - Last update:
