University Libraries to host Edible Book Festival 2015 April 1
University Libraries to host Edible Book Festival 2015 April 1 Skip to content | Skip to navigation Texas A&M University Texas A&M University Libraries Site Navigation Search Services University Libraries Services About Course Reserves Checkout a Book Request Forms Study Rooms Renew Materials Laptops Media Request an Article or Book (Get it for me) Tours, Classes, Orientations More » Help University Libraries Help AskUs Call Us Help Yourself How do I? (FAQs) Citing Your Sources Need Larger Text? Report Problems Off Campus Access Subject Guides Class Guides Subject Specialists More » About About University Libraries Hours, Phone, Directions General Information Collections Map & GIS Library Government Documents Special Collections More » Employee Directory Evans Library & Annex Cushing Library West Campus Library Medical Sciences Library Policy Sciences and Economics Library Digital Library Qatar Campus Library Galveston Campus Library More » Chat/Questions University Libraries ? About ? News and Events ? 2015 ? March ? University Libraries to host Edible Book Festival 2015 April 1 Personal tools My Library Record University Libraries to host Edible Book Festival 2015 April 1 ? Marketing and Communications | March 23, 2015 Back by popular demand, the second annual Edible Book Festival returns April 1, 2015 at Evans Library in the first floor Johnette & Elwyn Bass Library Commons. Food lovers and literary fans are invited to create an "edible book," which is an edible, culinary interpretation of any book, literary pun, book character, or plot, for a chance to win prizes. The Edible Book Festival is open to all students, faculty, staff, and community members. A panel of celebrity judges will select winners from seven categories: Puniest, Grossest, Best Construction, Best Children’s Entry (13 and under), Best Staff Entry, Best Texas A&M Student Entry, and People’s Choice. Each winner will receive a $100 Barnes & Noble gift card, and a grand prize winner for Best in Show will receive a $150 Barnes & Noble gift card. On the day of the event, entries will be accepted from 8–11:30 a.m. in the first floor Evans Library lobby next to Starbucks. All participants will receive a free Edible Book Festival 2015 T-shirt upon submitting their entries. Judging will take place between 12–1 p.m., and audience members will be able to vote for the People’s Choice award. The various category winners will be announced by the celebrity judges at 1 p.m., followed by a reception with snacks and refreshments. Participants should note a few guidelines: All creations must be made of "edible" materials — no metal, cardboard, plastic, etc. Entries must be inspired by a book, literary figure, or book character. Edible books will not be refrigerated, therefore creations must survive at room temperature. All entries will be photographed and added to the University Libraries’ Edible Book Festival gallery. The University Libraries reserves the right to reject any entry that is unsuitable for the festival (please refrain from inappropriate or offensive submissions). All entries not picked up by 4 p.m. following the event will be disposed by the University Libraries. For more information about the Edible Book Festival, please contact Stephanie Graves at stephaniegraves@library.tamu.edu. ### For more information: Contact James Solano, Texas A&M University Libraries, 979.845.2764 or agco2012@library.tamu.edu. Library news, events and feeds News & Events University Libraries to host Edible Book Festival 2015 April 1 Texas A&M University Selected as Host for Exhibition of Shakespeare’s First Folio Texas A&M University Libraries Introduces Quick Search Follow us Giving to the Libraries Texas A&M University Employment Webmaster Legal Comments 979-845-5741 Site Map Accessibility
