Welcome to the International Scholars Office
Welcome to the International Scholars Office Announcements Presentation and Welcome Reception for New International Scholars May 12, 2015 Special Presentation for International Postdocs Immigration Options for Post-MIT Employment May 7, 2015 Newsletter for Newcomers Learn about U.S. Culture April edition is now available. Tax Information Sessions for International Scholars Presented by Pricewaterhouse Coopers April 1, 2015 Tax Information Session for International Scholars February 24, 2015 Warning - Phone/Email Scams Important Changes in U.S. Health Care Law that May Affect International Scholars Far from home when something stressful, shocking, or sad happens... Support for International Scholars and their Families Welcome! Whether you are a member of the MIT administration or an international scholar, spouse, or MIT faculty member, you are likely to find comprehensive information on these pages that will answer your questions and provide you with helpful guidance. Simply point and click on a category above, or follow the “Quick Links.” Can’t find what you are looking for? The International Scholars Office is open Monday-Friday from 9am to 3pm, feel free to visit. Or, to call or e-mail, click on the Contact Us link above. Every year, over 2000 international scholars (visiting researchers, professors, and lecturers) and accompanying family members are affiliated with the MIT community. In 2012 - 2013, for example, this extraordinary group of individuals represented 90 different countries and engaged in research and teaching activities in 77 different MIT departments, laboratories, and centers. The mission of the International Scholars Office (ISchO) is to facilitate the arrival and appointment of international visitors, who are invited to campus to teach, conduct research, observe, and collaborate. ISchO encourages and supports the exchange of scholars and strives to ease the transition of foreign nationals into the campus community. Weekly orientations are given for incoming international scholars and family members. Just prior to fall and spring semesters, “new international faculty” orientations are given for incoming tenure-track faculty members. ISchO provides resources, information, and programming on a wide range of family, work, cultural exchange, visa, and travel topics relevant to the international scholar population. Numerous trainings on working with the ISchO, visa processing, and academic appointments are also held throughout the year for department, laboratory, and center administrators. ISchO also engages in advocacy efforts to protect international educational exchange, prevent burdensome federal regulations, and clarify and improve related procedures. International Students please consult the International Students Office website. Last Updated: April 2015 Quick Links for Scholars New! Guide to MIT and Visa Information for International Scholars (pdf) Change of Address Requirement Maintain Valid Immigration Status Tax Information Travel Advisory Visa Delays and Security Clearances Leaving MIT - Things to Remember 77 Massachusetts Ave, Room E38-219, Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 | Telephone: (617) 253-2851 | Fax: (617) 253-6624 | E-mail: iso@mit.edu
